<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100330_10-K_edgar_data_60667_0000060667-10-000059_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2398068</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>208133</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4478</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1745332</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>59</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000060667-10-000059.hdr.sgml : 20100330
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100330172854
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000060667-10-000059
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100129
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100330
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOWES COMPANIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000060667
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				560578072
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07898
		FILM NUMBER:		10714826

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 LOWE'S BLVD.
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28117
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7047581000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 1000
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28115

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FYp/59hnE+mnEGlB8jrrNZV6lrlZ4NXTeTTwZtq1L77PxB84BT/ERX7dylOKcrcd
 qHtDXv+yP90mTdIUy1hK9g==

 0000060667-10-000059.txt : 20100330

10-K
 1
 lowesform10k01292010.htm
 LOWE'S FORM 10-K JANUARY 29, 2010

lowesform10k01292010.htm 

UNITED STATES  

         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION  

         Washington, D.C.
20549  

FORM 10-K  

        (Mark
One) 

LOWE'S
        COMPANIES, 
      INC  . 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
    charter)

NORTH
      CAROLINA  

56-0578072  

(State
      or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 

(I.R.S.
      Employer Identification No.) 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of each class 

Name
      of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.50 Par
      Value  

New York Stock Exchange
      (NYSE)  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 

o  

Yes  

x  

No  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 1.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). 

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K  ( 229.405
of this chapter)  is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      x     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer,  and
"smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one): 

Large
      accelerated filer  x  

Accelerated
      filer  o  

Non-accelerated
      filer  o  

Smaller
      reporting company  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

o 

Yes 

x 

No 

As of
July 31, 2009, the last business day of the Company's most recent second
quarter, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $33.1 billion based on the closing sale
price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts Into Which
    Incorporated  

Portions
      of Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Parts
      I, II and IV 

Portions
      of the Proxy Statement for Lowe s 2010 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders 

Part
      III 

LOWE S COMPANIES,
INC.  

        -
INDEX - 

PART
    I   

Page No.   

Item 1.  

Business  

4-8  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

9-11  

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

11  

Item 2.  

Properties  

11  

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

11  

Item 4.  

Reserved  

11  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

12  

PART
II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
      Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  

                                Equity Securities  

13  

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

13  

Item 7.  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations  

13  

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk  

13  

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

13  

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
      and Financial Disclosure  

14  

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

14  

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

14  

PART
    III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance  

15  

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

15  

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

15  

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
      Director Independence  

15  

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

15  

PART
    IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

16-20  

Signatures  

21-22  

3 

Part I  

Item 1 - Business  

General
Information 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe s) is a Fortune 50 company
and the world s second largest home improvement retailer.  As of
January 29, 2010, we operated 1,710 stores, comprised of 1,694 stores across 50
U.S. states and 16 stores in Canada.  Our 1,710 stores represent
approximately 193 million square feet of retail selling space. 

Lowe s
was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since
1961. The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange -
ticker symbol  LOW.  

See Item
6,  Selected Financial Data,  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical
revenues, profits and identifiable assets.  For additional information
about the Company s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.  

Customers,
Market and Competition 

Our
Customers 

We serve
homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers.  Homeowners and
renters primarily consist of do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and do-it-for-me
(DIFM) customers who utilize our installed sales programs, as well as others
buying for personal and family use.  Commercial Business Customers
include those who work in the construction, repair/remodel, commercial and
residential property management, or business maintenance
professions. 

Our
Market 

Using the
most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2008, we estimate the
size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $630 billion
annually, comprised of $492 billion of product demand and $138 billion of
installed labor opportunity.  Data from a variety of primary and secondary
sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry
participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis for our
estimate.  This data captures a wide range of categories relevant to
our business, including major appliances and garden supplies.  Based
on the most recently available data, we believe that the size of the U.S. home
improvement market decreased approximately 11% in 2009. 

There are
many variables that impact consumer demand for the products and services we
offer.  Key indicators we monitor include employment, real disposable
personal income, housing turnover, and home ownership levels.  We also
monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement
industry growth.  

Employment
      is an indicator of home improvement sales.  The forecasted
      average unemployment rate of 10.0% for 2010 from the February 2010 Blue
      Chip Economic Indicators  is higher than the 9.3% average seen in
      2009 and suggests that Americans will continue to face challenging
      employment prospects this year. 

Although
      real disposable personal income continues to grow, it is projected to grow
      at a slower pace for 2010 than the long-term average annual increase of
      3.4%, during the period from 1960 to 2009.  Real disposable
      personal income growth is forecasted to be 2.1% for calendar 2010,
      compared with 1.3% for calendar 2009, based on data from the February 2010
      Blue Chip Economic Indicators . 

Housing
      turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, remains significantly
      below peak levels according to The National Association of
      Realtors .  However, recent data suggests that housing turnover
      in 2010 will increase over 2009. 

According
      to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels over the
      past year have continued their decline from 2007, they remain above their
      historical average.  Home ownership provides an established
      customer base for home maintenance and repair
      projects.   The vast majority of our customers are
      homeowners and most are not willing to let what is often their most
      valuable financial asset
deteriorate. 

Currently,
all of these indicators suggest continued weakness in consumer
demand.  In this challenging economic environment, we are balancing
implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on
conserving capital and maintaining liquidity. 

4 

Our
Competition 

The home
improvement retailing business includes many competitors.  We compete
with other chains of home improvement warehouse stores and lumberyards in most
of our trade areas.  We also compete with traditional hardware,
plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers.  In addition, we
compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise
retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, and online
retailers.  The principal competitive factors in our industry include
location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock levels,
merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service.  See further
discussion of competition in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  Risk
Factors.  

Products
and Services 

Our
Products 

Product
Selection 

      To meet
customers  varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products
for home decorating, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and property
maintenance.  We offer home improvement products in the following
categories: appliances, paint, lumber, flooring, building materials, millwork,
lawn   landscape products, hardware, fashion plumbing, tools, lighting,
seasonal living, rough plumbing, nursery, outdoor power equipment, cabinets
  countertops, rough electrical, home environment, home organization, and
windows   walls.  A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately
40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special
Order Sales system and Lowes.com.  Our Special Order Sales product
offerings provide our customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of
product options beyond the items we carry in our stores through electronic
product catalogs and Lowes.com.  We continue to enhance integrated
design tools and ordering systems storewide in order for customers to envision
projects, as well as to efficiently receive price quotes and complete an
order.  See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each
of the last three fiscal years. 

We are
committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as
well as building long-term value for Lowe s through the development of
proprietary brands. 

National
Brand Name Merchandise 

      In many
product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill
confidence in their purchase.  Each Lowe s store carries a wide
selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool , Stainmaster ,
Valspar , Pella  and many more.  Our merchandise selection provides
the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for a wide
variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement,
repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Proprietary
Brands 

      We also
sell many brands that are exclusive to Lowe s to further differentiate our
product offerings from our competitors .  These unique brands cover
several categories, including lighting, flooring and tools, and give our
customers great quality and value. Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe s
are Aquasource , Garden Treasures , Harbor Breeze , Kobalt ,
Portfolio ,  Reliabilt , Top-Choice , and Utilitech . 

Product
Sourcing 

      We source
our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single
vendor accounting for more than 7% of total purchases.  We believe
that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of
our products.  Whenever possible, we purchase directly from
manufacturers to provide savings for our customers and gross margin improvement
for Lowe s. 

Supply
Chain 

      To
efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock
levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers
(RDCs).  On average, each RDC serves 121 stores.  In
addition, we utilize a third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian
stores.  We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to
distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of
packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl
sidings, ladders and building materials.  Additionally, we operate
three facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and
internet fulfillment. We also utilize three third-party transload
facilities.  These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  The transload facilities sort
and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and
forecasts. 

On
average in fiscal 2009, over 74% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise
we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining
portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

5 

Our
Service Offerings 

Installed
Sales 

      We offer
installation services through independent contractors in many of our product
categories, with flooring, millwork and cabinets   countertops generating
the highest sales.  Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling
and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their
focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related
to installing the products sold are efficiently executed.  Installed
Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of
total sales in fiscal 2009. 

Commercial
Business Customers 

      We strive
to be a valued business partner to Commercial Business
Customers.  Because we understand the challenges they face in the
current economic environment and the importance of timeliness to these
customers, we continue to evaluate and tailor our support program to best meet
their needs.  These programs focus on in-stock and special order
merchandise, contractor packs, business credit, and other convenience services
such as fast ordering and 7-day delivery.  We also offer a Quote
Support Program which provides quotes to Commercial Business Customers for
larger projects and helps to ensure our pricing on these projects is
competitive.  In addition, we offer a district commercial account
specialist program in many of our markets which expands our close-support
program for Commercial Business Customers.  We also have a dedicated
web site for these customers, LowesForPros.com, that makes it easier for them to
use the programs we have designed specifically for them. 

Credit
Financing 

      We offer
a proprietary credit card for retail customers.  In addition, we offer
a Lowe s Project Card in all stores.  The Lowe s Project Card provides
a major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe s Consumer
Revolving Credit Card. 

We also
offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business
Customers.  They include a Lowe s Business Account, which is ideal for
small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe s
Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that
pay in full each month.  We also offer the Lowe s Business Rewards
Card from American Express , which is a business credit card with a rewards
program that enables business owners to earn points on virtually all card
purchases. 

In
addition, we accept Visa , MasterCard , Discover  and American Express  credit
cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks. 

For
additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our
significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  

Distribution
Channels 

Stores 

      Our 1,710
retail home improvement stores are open seven days per week, 363 days per year,
and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, which
includes approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling
space.  Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain
minor variations based on local market factors. 

Lowes.com 

      Lowes.com
seeks to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping
reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by
providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online
buying guides and how-to videos and information.  These tools help
consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give consumers
confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement
projects.  We also enable consumers to choose from a variety of
multichannel fulfillment options, including buy online and pick-up in-store as
well as direct shipment to customers  homes.  As our business evolves, we
continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage emerging
technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with consumers that
will make us the first choice for their home improvement
needs.  Lowes.com sales accounted for less than 1% of total sales in
fiscal 2009. 

6 

New Store Expansion 

We opened
62 new stores in fiscal 2009, including five Canadian stores.  Our
2009 store openings included three primary prototypes: 117,000-square-foot
(117K) and 103,000-square-foot (103K) stores for large markets and a
94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve smaller markets.  The
following table illustrates our store expansion over the last three
years: 

We expect
to open 40 to 45 new stores in fiscal 2010.  That estimate includes
continued expansion of our store base in Canada, including our first stores in
Western Canada, as well as our first stores in Monterrey, Mexico.  Our
fiscal 2010 store openings will be comprised primarily of 117K, 103K and 94K
stores.  As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize our
return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability,
among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular
market.  The reduction in store openings in 2010 as compared to 2009
reflects the continued challenging current economic environment. 

Employees 

As of
January 29, 2010, we employed approximately 166,000 full-time and 73,000
part-time employees, none of which in the U.S. or Canada are covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  Management considers its relations
with its employees to be good. 

Seasonality
and Working Capital 

The
retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business
is to some extent seasonal.  Historically, we have realized the
highest volume of sales during our fiscal second quarter (May, June and July)
and the lowest volume of sales during our fiscal fourth quarter (November,
December and January).  Accordingly, our working capital requirements
have historically been greater during our fiscal fourth quarter as we build
inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience
lower fiscal fourth quarter sales volumes.  We fund our working
capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but
also with short-term borrowings, if needed.  For more detailed
information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources
section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Intellectual
Property 

The name
 Lowe s  is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to
our business. This subsidiary has various additional registered trademarks,
trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our proprietary brand
program.  Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe s are Aquasource ,
Garden Treasures , Harbor Breeze , Kobalt , Portfolio ,  Reliabilt ,
Top-Choice , and Utilitech . 

Environmental
Leadership 

We
continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers
reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving
money through a growing number of product and service solutions.  We offer
a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products
for the home, from ENERGY STAR  appliances to low VOC paint.  

7 

Some highlights of our environmental leadership include:

The
      U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded us the 2010 ENERGY STAR 
      Sustained Excellence Award in Retail, which recognizes our long-standing
      leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as eight
      consecutive ENERGY STAR  awards (2003-2010), including four ENERGY STAR 
      Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of
      energy efficiency. 

We
      participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent
      not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary
      corporate climate change information in the
  world.  

We
      provide in-store recycling for plastic bags, CFLs and rechargeable
      batteries. 

We
      were recognized as a Top 10 retailer participating in the U.S.
      Environmental Protection Agency s Green Power Partnership
      program.  

In
addition to operating our stores as efficiently as possible by reducing our
energy and water usage, we are striving to get products to our stores in an
environmentally responsible manner.  Our conservation strategies and
continued contributions to the transportation industry have been honored by
multiple SmartWay Environmental Excellence Awards, an innovative program   launched by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 that represents environmentally cleaner,
more fuel efficient transportation options. To earn those awards, we implemented
initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall
highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing
efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer
trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay
carriers. 

Compliance
with Environmental Matters 

Our
operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations
that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment.  They have in the past and may in the future increase our
costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through
increased energy and product costs as producers of energy, cement, iron, steel,
pulp, paper, petroleum and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are
subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.   We do not anticipate
any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2010 for environmental control
facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or
regulations. 

Reaching
Out 

We
believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our stores. 
In 2009, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF)
contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the
United States and Canada.  LCEF was created in 1957 to assist
communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to
become involved through volunteerism.  In 2009, LCEF supported more
than 2,300 community and education projects.  The Foundation funds our
signature grant program, Lowe s Toolbox for Education , and partnerships with
organizations including   SkillsUSA , Rebuilding
Together , the Home Safety Council and The Nature Conservancy.  Since
2003, Lowe s has worked with Habitat for Humanity  International to combat
substandard housing.  Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's
Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also
partner with customers to support the American Red Cross and the Muscular
Dystrophy Association (MDA), contributing more than $9 million to MDA since 2001
and nearly $21 million to the American Red Cross since 1999.  Lowe s
also encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe s Heroes program, a
company-wide initiative.  For more information on our community
involvement, please see the Lowe s Social Responsibility Report at  www.Lowes.com/socialresponsibility . 

Available
Information 

Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made
available free of charge through our internet website at  www.Lowes.com/investor ,
as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed
with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).  The public may also read and copy any materials the Company
files with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site,  www.sec.gov , that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

8 

Item 1A   Risk Factors  

We are
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and
uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to
retailers serving the home improvement industry.   Our operations
may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or
which we currently consider immaterial to our business.  We describe
below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  All
forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and
in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public
communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general
economy. 

      General
economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally,
may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial
performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods of flat
economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to
time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability
and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe s and its customers, slower rates of growth
in real disposable personal income, higher rates of unemployment, higher
consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation
of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in
the war against terrorism in Asia, the Middle East and other parts of the
world. 

The
global recession that began in the U.S. in December 2007 and the slow recovery
that (we believe) is currently under way, together with the financial/credit
crisis that erupted during the fall of 2008 and led to the collapse, government
bailout or acquisition of numerous weakened financial institutions, have had and
will continue to have significant adverse effects on our results of
operations.  Continued high rates of unemployment, the psychological
effect of falling home prices, volatility in consumer confidence indices,
consumer deleveraging and reduced access to credit have combined to lead to
sharply reduced consumer spending, particularly by our customers on many of the
discretionary, big-ticket items we sell that tend to be larger home improvement
project driven.  For these reasons consumer confidence and willingness
to spend on discretionary items remain relatively low.  And although
we expect them to be stronger in 2010 than 2009, our sales and results of
operations will continue to be adversely affected throughout the 2010 fiscal
year. 

Adverse
changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may
negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store
sales. 

      Sales of
many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and
activity level of home improvement projects.  The expiration of
government stimulus programs specific to the housing sector during the second
half of fiscal year 2010 may adversely affect the rate of housing turnover.
Steep declines over the last three years in home prices, the increasing number
of households with negative equity, increasing mortgage delinquency and
foreclosure rates, reduction in the availability of mortgage financing, rising
interest rates on variable rate mortgages, and significantly lower housing
turnover, have limited and may continue to limit consumers  discretionary
spending, particularly on discretionary items, and affect their confidence level
to spend on larger home improvement projects.   The impact of these
economic factors specific to the home improvement industry is exacerbated by
what is expected to be a gradual and prolonged period of economic recovery with
slow employment growth. 

Unseasonable
weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total
sales and comparable store sales. 

      If
weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season,
they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal
merchandise.   Although the impact of unseasonable weather
conditions is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our
stores, they continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our
business, particularly when they occur across a broad region of the
U.S.  Adverse weather events, such as a prolonged and widespread
drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as well. 

Our
store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully
open and operate new stores each year. 

      Our
growth in total sales depends not only on a recovery from the current
recessionary period but also to a substantial degree on successfully and
cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program.  We have
scaled back our expansion plans significantly in the last two years and plan to
scale them back further during fiscal year 2010 in response to the weak
macroeconomic environment.   As we expand further, we must adapt
our merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets both
domestically and internationally, as we continue to expand into Canada and
Mexico.   International expansion presents unique challenges that
may increase the anticipated costs and slow the anticipated rate of such
expansion. 

We also
plan to increase the number of our stores in markets in which we currently
operate.  Our ability to open additional stores depends, in large
measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new store sites on acceptable
terms.   Local land use and other regulations restricting the
construction of buildings in the formats with which we operate may affect our
ability to open new stores in some markets.  As we develop more new
stores in metropolitan markets, we may incur increased costs to remediate
environmental pollution on some of the sites we are redeveloping that was caused
by previous owners of those sites.  Our ability to continue to expand
our operations depends also on our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees.  If we are unable to open new stores at the 

9 

rate we
currently plan and staff them with qualified employees, the growth in our sales
and our competitive position could be adversely affected. 

If
we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other
employees we could lose sales to our competitors. 

      Customers 
perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any
retailer s success or failure.  If we fail to attract, train and
retain qualified managers and sales associates our financial performance could
be adversely impacted.  Consumers shopping for goods and services for
home improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are
knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our stores. Excessive
turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or
part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the
training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer
service. 

Our
success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon
our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales
specialists. 

      Commercial
Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have
well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks.  By
doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent
basis.  Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of
knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business
Customers.  If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and
knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business
Customers. 

We
have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing
and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from
us. 

      We
operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and
services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect
competitors.  The competitive environment in which we operate is
particularly challenging during recessionary and economic recovery periods with
heavy promotions, particularly of discretionary items, and competitor closings.
The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores,
price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment
and presentation, and customer service.  Our failure to respond
effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could
affect our financial performance.  Moreover, changes in the
promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the
effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected
results. 

An
unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective
products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with
customers. 

      We are
exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the
products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.  Because we do not have direct control over
the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and
because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are
exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products.  Product
liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the
ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature, as well as mandatory or voluntary
recalls of defective products we have sold, could also have a negative impact on
customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation. 

Our
financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical
information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

      An
important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and
sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of
improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as
inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and
receipt processing.  Our financial performance could be adversely
affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are
unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems. 

Our
business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to
protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data or to comply with evolving
regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data. 

      While we
have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and
maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over individually
identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breakdown or a
breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually
identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a
material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial
condition.  Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase
the costs we incur to protect against such risks.  Also, the
regulatory environment relating to our obligation to protect such sensitive data
is becoming stricter.  A material failure on our part to comply with
these evolving regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory
sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. 

If
the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our
sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

      We source
the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000
domestic and international vendors.  We source many of those products
directly from foreign manufacturers.  Political or financial
instability among suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange
rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could
negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of
products through our supply chain.   The global recession from which
we are 

10 

beginning
to recover and the credit crisis that began in late 2008 and continues to some
extent have adversely affected the operations and financial stability of some of
our vendors by reducing their sales and restricting their access to
capital.  We may have to replace some of our smaller vendors, and some
of our vendors may not be able to fulfill their financial obligations to us or
to do so in a timely manner. 

Our
inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of
brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate
ourselves from competitors. 

      Part of
our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from
competitors.  To better distinguish our product offering, we form
strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products
under a variety of recognized and respected brand names.  The
inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these
suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial
results. 

Changes in existing
or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. 

       Laws
and regulations at both the state and federal levels change frequently and can
impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our
merchandise vendors.  Any changes in regulations, the imposition of
additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affects
employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs,
health care, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly
or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of
operations. 

Item 1B   Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

Item 2 - Properties  

At
January 29, 2010 we operated 1,710 stores in the U.S. and Canada with a total of
193 million square feet of selling space. Of the total stores operating at
January 29, 2010, approximately 88% are owned, which includes stores on leased
land, with the remainder being leased from unaffiliated
third-parties.  Approximately 49% of our store leases are capital
leases. We also own and operate 14 RDCs and 13 FDCs for lumber and building
commodities.  We lease and operate two additional
FDCs.   We also operate three facilities to support our import
business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment.  We own two
and lease one of these facilities.  In addition, we utilize three
third-party transload facilities, which do not hold inventory but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  We own one data center and
lease one data center that serve as hubs for our computer processing, critical
data storage and information technology systems.  We own one building
and lease additional space for our countertop fabrication operation located in
Plain City, Ohio. We own our executive offices, which are located in
Mooresville, North Carolina.  We also own and maintain offices in
Wilkesboro, North Carolina, and lease and maintain offices in Toronto, Canada,
and Monterrey, Mexico. 

Item 3 - Legal Proceedings  

We are a
defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal course of
business, none of which, individually or collectively, is considered
material. 

Item 4   Reserved     

11 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The
following is a list of names and ages of all of the executive officers of the
registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each
such person and each person's principal occupations or employment during the
past five years. 

12 

Part II  

Item
5   -
  Market for Registrant s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities   

Lowe's
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The ticker symbol
for Lowe's is  LOW .  As of March 26, 2010, there were 31,041
holders of record of Lowe's common stock. The table, "Quarterly Stock Price
Range and Cash Dividends Declared", on page 48 of the 2009 Lowe s Annual Report
to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 sets forth, for the
periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common stock
as reported by the NYSE Composite Tape and the dividends per share declared on
the common stock during such periods. 

The
following table sets forth information with respect to purchases of the
Company s common stock made during the fourth quarter of 2009: 

(1)  During
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased an aggregate of
      21,915,676 shares of its common stock pursuant to the share repurchase
      program.  The total number of shares purchased also includes a
      nominal amount of shares repurchased from employees to satisfy either the
      exercise price of certain stock options or their statutory withholding tax
      liability upon the vesting of restricted
shares. 

(2) 
        Authorization 
      available for share repurchases under the previous program expired as of
      January 29, 2010.  An additional authorization for up to $5
      billion of share repurchases with no expiration was approved on January
      29, 2010 by the Company s Board of Directors. Although this new repurchase
      authorization has no expiration, the Company expects to implement the
      program over the next three years through purchases made from time to time
      either in the open market or through private transactions, in accordance
      with SEC regulations. 

Item 6 - Selected Financial Data  

See page
47 of the Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  

See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 18 through 26 and "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements" on page 27 of Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders. 

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk  

See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" on page 26 of
Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

See
"Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" of Deloitte  
Touche LLP on page 28, the financial statements and notes thereto on
pages 30 through 46, and the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 47 of Lowe s
2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

13 

Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure  

None. 

Item 9A - Controls and Procedures  

The
Company's management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
 disclosure controls and procedures , (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the Exchange Act)). Based upon their evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be
disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange
Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) (1) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC s rules and forms, and (2) is accumulated and communicated to the
Company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. 

In
addition, no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
occurred during the fiscal fourth quarter ended January 29, 2010 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
report on internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the report of Deloitte   Touche
LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, are included
in Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 27 and 29 under the
headings,  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  respectively, and are
incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 9B - Other Information  

None. 

14 

Part III  

Item 10 - Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled,  Election of Directors,   Information
Concerning the Nominees,   Information Concerning Continuing Directors, 
 Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board,  and
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  included in the
definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with
the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 (the Proxy
Statement).  The information required by this item with respect to our
executive officers appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
the caption,  Executive Officers of the Registrant.  

All
employees of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Accounting Officer are required to abide by the Lowe's
Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code).
The Code is designed to ensure that the Company's business is conducted in a
legal and ethical manner. The Code covers all areas of professional conduct
including compliance with laws and regulations, conflicts of interest, fair
dealing among customers and suppliers, corporate opportunity, confidential
information, insider trading, employee relations and accounting complaints. A
full text of the Code can be found at www.Lowes.com, under the  About Lowe s, 
 Investors  and  Code of Ethics  captions. You can also obtain a copy of the
complete Code by contacting Shareholder Services at 1-888-345-6937. 

We will
disclose information pertaining to amendments or waivers to provisions of our
Code that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions and that
relate to the elements of our Code enumerated in the SEC rules and regulations
by posting this information on our website at www.Lowes.com. The information on
our website is not a part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by
reference in this report or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

Item 11 - Executive Compensation  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled,  Executive Officer Compensation  and
 Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board  
Compensation of Directors  included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled,  Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled,  Related-Party Transactions  and
 Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board - Director
Independence    included
in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 14 - Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled,  Audit Matters - Fees Paid to the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  included in the Proxy
Statement. 

15 

Part IV  

Item 15 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

a) 1.   Financial
Statements  

      See the
following items and page numbers appearing in Lowe s 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders: 

2.   Financial
Statement Schedule  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Lowe's Companies,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company")  as of January 29, 2010 and
January 30, 2009, and for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
January 29, 2010, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as
of January 29, 2010, and have issued our reports thereon dated March 30, 2010;
such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in the Company's
2009 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our
audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the
Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to   the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      March 30,
2010 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

LOWE S
      COMPANIES, INC. 

(Registrant) 

March
      30, 2010 

By:
      /s/ Robert A. Niblock 

Date 

Robert
      A. Niblock 

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

March
      30, 2010 

By:
      /s/ Robert F. Hull, Jr. 

Date 

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr. 

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

March
      30, 2010 

By:
      /s/ Matthew V. Hollifield 

Date 

Matthew
      V. Hollifield 

Senior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer 

21 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form
10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Each of the directors of the
Registrant whose signature appears below hereby appoints Robert F. Hull, Jr.,
Matthew V. Hollifield and Gaither M. Keener, Jr., and each of them severally, as
his or her attorney-in-fact to sign in his or her name and behalf, in any and
all capacities stated below, and to file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission any and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K, making such
changes in this report on Form 10-K as appropriate, and generally to do all such
things in their behalf in their capacities as directors and/or officers to
enable the Registrant to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and all requirements of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

22 

<EX-10.20>
 2
 exhibit1020.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20 - AMENDMENT NUMBER FIVE TO THE LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. 401(K) PLAN

exhibit1020.htm 

Exhibit
10.20 

AMENDMENT
NUMBER FIVE TO THE 

      LOWE S
401(k) PLAN 

This
Amendment Number Five to the Lowe s 401(k) Plan, as amended and restated
effective February 3, 2007 (the   Plan  ),   is adopted by Lowe s
Companies, Inc. (the   Company  ). 

W
I T N E S S E T H: 

WHEREAS,  the Company currently
maintains the Plan; and 

WHEREAS,  under Section 15 of
the Plan, the Company may amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time;
and 

WHEREAS , the Company desires
to amend the Plan to reflect recent regulatory and legislative changes required
by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and the Heroes Earnings Assistance and
Relief Tax Act of 2008. 

NOW, THEREFORE , the Company
hereby amends the Plan effective as of January 1, 2008, or as otherwise
specified herein, as follows: 

1.           The
third sentence of Section 9(g) shall be amended to read as follows: 

An
 eligible retirement plan  is one of the following plans that accepts  eligible
rollover distributions  and agrees to separately account for amounts transferred
into such plan from this Plan : (1) an individual retirement account described
in Section 408(a) of the Code, (2) an individual retirement annuity
described in Section 408(b) of the Code, (3) a qualified trust described in
Section 401(a) of the Code, (4) a qualified annuity plan described in
Section 403(a) of the Code, (5) an annuity contract described in
Section 403(b) of the Code, (6) an eligible plan under
Section 457(b)   of the Code which is
maintained by a state, political subdivision of a state, or any agency or
instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state, or (7) effective
for distributions on and after December 31, 2007, a Roth IRA described in Code
Section 408A(b), the terms of which permit the acceptance of a direct rollover
from a qualified plan.  

2.           The
following shall be added to the end of Section 9(g) effective as of January 1,
2007: 

       For
distributions after December 31, 2006, a non-spouse beneficiary who is a
 designated beneficiary  under Code Section 401(a)(9)(E) and the regulations
thereunder may elect a direct rollover, of all or any portion of an eligible
rollover distribution within the meaning of Code Section 402(c)(4) to such
non-spouse beneficiary, to an individual retirement account established for this
purpose.  Any such distribution made prior to January 1, 2010 is not
subject to the direct rollover requirements of Code Section 401(a)(31),
including Code Section 401(a)(31)(B), the notice requirements of Code Section
402(f) or the mandatory withholding requirements of Code Section
3405(c).  A non-spouse beneficiary who receives a distribution from
the Plan is not eligible for a 60-day rollover. The portion of a Participant s
Capital Accumulation distribution consisting of after-tax contributions which
are not includible in income shall be eligible for a direct rollover in
accordance with this Section; provided that, prior to January 1, 2010, such
portion may be transferred only to an individual retirement account or annuity
described in Section 408(a) or (b) of the Code, or to a qualified defined
contribution plan described in Section 401(a) or 403(a) of the
Code.  Effective on and after December 31, 2009, the portion of a
Participant s Capital Accumulation consisting of after-tax contributions which
are not includible in income shall also be eligible for a direct rollover to a
defined benefit plan described in Section 401(a) or 403(a) of the Code or to an
annuity contract described in Code Section 403(b).  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, a direct rollover of a Participant s Capital Accumulation
consisting of after-tax contributions which are not includible in income may be
made only to an account or plan that agrees to separately account for amounts so
transferred, including separately accounting for the portion of such
distribution which is includible in gross income and the portion of such
distribution which is not so includible in gross income.  

3.           The
following new Section 10(f) shall be added to the Plan effective as of September
1, 2008. 

(f)           Distributions
to Qualified Reservists   Effective on and after September 1, 2008, pursuant to
Code Section 401(k)(2)(B)(i)(V), an individual who is a member of a reserve
component who is called to active duty either for a period in excess of 179 days
or for an indefinite period of time may elect to receive a  qualified reservist
distribution  as defined in Code Section 72(t)(2)(G)(iii) which distribution
shall not be subject to the otherwise applicable 10-percent excise tax of Code
Section 72(t)(1) on early distributions.  

4.           Except
as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby, the Plan shall continue
in full force and effect. 

IN
WITNESS HEREOF, the Company has adopted this Amendment Number Five to the Plan
effective as of the effective dates set forth above. 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 

By:         
/s/Marshall A. Croom 

Marshall
      A. Croom, Senior Vice President   Chief Risk
  Officer 

Chairman,
      Administrative Committee of Lowe s Companies,
  Inc. 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.21>
 3
 exhibit1021.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.21 - AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. DIRECTORS' DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM

exhibit1021.htm 

Exhibit
10.21 

      AMENDMENT
NUMBER ONE 

      TO
THE 

      LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 

      DIRECTORS 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

THIS AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE  to
the Lowe s Companies, Inc. Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, as adopted
effective as of July 1, 1994 (the   Plan  ), is adopted by
Lowe s Companies, Inc. (the   Company  ) effective
as of January 31, 2009. 

W
I T N E S S E T H: 

WHEREAS,  the Company wishes to
amend the Plan to change the interest crediting rate on Deferred Cash
Benefits; 

NOW THEREFORE , the Section 7
of the Plan is hereby amended effective as of January 31, 2009 to read as
follows: 

7.            DEFERRED CASH
BENEFITS . 

Deferred Cash Benefits
will be set up in a Deferred Cash Account for each Participant and credited with
interest calculated in the same manner and at the same rate as interest on
amounts invested in the short-term interest fund option available to employees
participating in the Lowe s 401(k) Plan, a tax-qualified, defined contribution
plan sponsored by the Company.  Deferred Cash Benefits are credited to
the applicable Participant s Deferred Cash Account as of the day they would have
been paid but for the deferral.  Interest is credited on the first day
of each month based on the Deferred Cash Account balance at the end of the
preceding day.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  this
Amendment Number One has been executed on the 12 th  day
of November, 2009, effective as of the date specified herein. 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 

By:        /s/
Maureen K. Ausura 

        Maureen K. Ausura 

        Senior Vice President, Human
Resources 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 exhibit121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1 - STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exhibit121.htm 

Exhibit
12.1  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13>
 5
 exhibit13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13 - PORTIONS OF LOWE'S 2009 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

exhibit13.htm 

Exhibit 13 

-   

         Table of Contents
      -  

Management's Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations   

Quantitative and Qualitative
      Disclosures About Market Risk   

Disclosure Regarding
      Forward-Looking Statements   

Management's Report
      on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

Reports of Independent
      Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Consolidated Statements of
      Earnings   

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets   

Consolidated Statements of
      Shareholders' Equity   

Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements   

Selected Financial
      Data   

Quarterly Stock Price
      Range and Cash Dividends Declared   

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

        FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The
following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting
our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital
resources during the three-year period ended January 29, 2010 (our fiscal years
2009, 2008 and 2007).  Each of the fiscal years presented contains 52
weeks of operating results.  Unless otherwise noted, all references
herein for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 represent the fiscal years ended
January 29, 2010, January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008,
respectively.  This discussion should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial
statements included in this annual report that have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  This discussion and analysis is presented in seven
sections: 

Executive
      Overview 

Operations 

Lowe s
      Business Outlook 

Financial
      Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Off-Balance
      Sheet Arrangements 

Contractual
      Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

Critical
      Accounting Policies and Estimates 

EXECUTIVE
OVERVIEW 

External
Factors Impacting Our Business 

The
external pressures facing our industry continued in 2009, as the effects of
declining home prices, rising unemployment and general economic uncertainty led
to a reduction in consumer confidence and hesitancy among consumers to spend on
discretionary projects.  Unemployment increased from approximately
7.7% at the end of 2008 to 9.7% at the end of 2009, foreclosure rates increased
over 20% compared to 2008, and home prices continued to decline, though at a
slower pace. As a result, consumers have reordered their priorities and have
become more deliberate in their spending decisions, as evidenced by the
significant decline in the rate of consumer spending, and the increase in the
savings rate to more than 4.0%.  Consumers have also shifted to more
Do-It-Yourself (DIY) projects; balancing the tradeoffs of convenience versus the
cost.  In many cases, consumers have reduced the scope of their
projects or are trading down, while still looking for high
quality.  As the consumers  priorities have shifted, we are focused on
understanding how they are making their spending decisions.  Our
surveys through secondary research indicate that the home is still very
important to consumers and it is still most consumers  largest asset, even with
the declines in home values they have suffered over recent years.  And
more importantly, the psychological attachment to the home and what it stands
for remains strong. 

Highlighting
the impact of the current economic environment and consumer behavior on our
business, comparable store sales declined 6.7% in 2009.  While
customer transactions were down slightly from the prior year, comparable store
average ticket declined 5.7%, and tickets greater than $500 declined 11.3%
during 2009. 

During
the second half of 2009, we saw some signs of improvement, specifically
improving trends in comparable store sales, including improvements in larger
ticket sales. This resulted in a 1.6% decline in comparable store sales for the
fourth quarter of 2009, which was our best performance in over three years.
During the quarter, we also saw significant sequential improvement in bigger
ticket projects and above-average comparable store Installed and Special Order
Sales. We view this as an encouraging sign regarding consumers  willingness to
take on larger, more discretionary projects.  Our most recent
quarterly survey indicated that homeowners are less likely to delay major
product purchases than in the recent past. 

Business
Strategy 

Managing
through the Economic Downturn 

Our goal
remains to drive profitable market share gains during these challenging times as
the economy begins to recover.  In order to do so, we continue to
focus on customer service, effective management of working capital, and driving
cost efficiencies.  According to third-party estimates, we gained
approximately 100 basis points of total store unit market share during calendar
year 2009, and approximately 400 basis points during the downturn over the past
four years.  This is evidence of our commitment to customer service,
compelling product offering, and our ability to capitalize on the evolving
competitive landscape. 

Customer
service continues to be a primary focus for driving profitable sales and market
share gains.  Through the economic downturn as consumers continued to
postpone larger discretionary projects, we have seen resurgence in the DIY trend
with smaller repair and maintenance projects in such areas as outdoor and
seasonal products, paint, hardware, electrical and plumbing repair. Since some
homeowners have taken on their first DIY project in a few years, many are coming
to Lowe's not only for products, but for information on how to successfully
complete their home-improvement projects. Accordingly, we have added
informational project boards in key departments in our stores, as well as how-to
videos on Lowes.com, to provide customers information and tips needed to
successfully complete these projects.  In 2009, we also made changes
to staffing plans and inventory levels to ensure we were well positioned to
serve the DIY customer.  In all sales environments, we remain
committed to staffing our stores with knowledgeable employees to provide the
service that our customers have come to expect.  We know that
leadership and great people are the foundation of our success. During 2009, the
average tenure of a Lowe s store manager increased to more than eight years,
providing an experienced and knowledgeable leadership base.  We
continue to refine and improve our  Customer Focused  program, which measures
each store s performance relative to key components of customer satisfaction,
including selling skills, Installed Sales, and checkout
experience.  Our customer service scores, measured by our quarterly
Customer Focused process, have never been higher. 

During
the year, we planned our inventory purchases more conservatively across seasonal
categories.  We maintained a competitive assortment in Trim-a-Tree and
experienced strong sell through, which resulted in fewer markdowns of these
products.  In tools, we purchased more core products to minimize
markdowns.  These efforts helped us to continue to increase margins
and effectively manage our working capital during the downturn.  As a
result, we ended the year with 3.6% lower comparable store inventory compared to
2008. 

In
addition, during 2009, in light of the current economic cycle, we re-evaluated
our future store expansion plans to ensure we were making the most effective use
of our capital, which resulted in a reduction in the number of stores we expect
to open in 2010, as well as the discontinuation of certain future store
projects. The principles that drive our store-expansion plans include a focus on
high-volume, metro-market opportunities, particularly in markets where we have
minimal coverage, projects that minimize the effects of cannibalization, and
projects that will allow us to maintain consistently strong returns on our new
store capital investments. 

For the
past three years during the soft sales environment, we have made decisions to
control expenses that have allowed us to maintain profitability while continuing
to provide strong customer service. Our largest expense is payroll, and we plan
store payroll hours proportionate to sales volumes and, even more specifically,
to the sales volumes of individual departments within our stores.  Our
goal is to manage our payroll expense without sacrificing customer
service.  One of the efficiencies implemented in the fourth quarter is
our Facility Service Associate position. This position will help ensure we
maintain our shopping environment by having better execution of the general
maintenance of our stores, including minor store repairs.  In
conjunction with this new position we identified the opportunity to centralize
and consolidate our facilities service agreements across our footprint, which
allowed us to get better pricing on these contracts.  Lastly, we
continue to focus our marketing efforts on advertising effectiveness.  We have reduced spending
on  mass media as the Lowe s brand gained national awareness and market
share, and increased more targeted advertising campaigns including Creative
Ideas, internet search and direct mail. We continue to focus on our value
messages combined with our Everyday Low Price strategy which continues to
resonate well with customers.  These measured steps helped us leverage
our marketing expense as a percent of sales during 2009. 

Preparing
for Economic Recovery 

While
uncertainty remains, we are encouraged by the results we achieved in the fourth
quarter of 2009 and believe that the worst of the economic cycle is likely
behind us.  We know that the path to economic recovery will occur at
different times and at different rates across all the markets in which we
compete.  As a result, we have several initiatives underway to ensure
we are best positioned to drive results and gain market share throughout the
recovery. 

Driven by
our commitment to manage the business for the long term, during 2009 we added a
Project Specialist-Exteriors position in 1,400 of our stores to capture a larger
share of products like roofing, siding, fencing and windows, whose
characteristics lend themselves to in-home selling. To continue to grow our
Commercial Business Customer (CBC) sales, we also added a District Commercial
Account Specialist program and launched a Lowe s Business Rewards card with
American Express to help us better connect with, and become more relevant to,
the larger commercial customer.  

Improving
customer service and inventory management have always been priorities, but have
been especially critical during the economic downturn.  Our multi-year
Flexible Fulfillment initiative takes that one step further, and will enable us
to better meet customers' needs by better leveraging our entire network's
inventory.  Once these systems are in place, it will allow the sale of
product in any Lowe's location or Lowes.com to be fulfilled and delivered to the
customers  homes from the most efficient location in the network.  Our
goal is to make this a seamless process for the customer and at the same time
leverage the inventory that we have throughout our network. 

Looking
forward to 2010, we are positioning ourselves to capitalize as long term
economic conditions improve.  However, we are also focused on shorter term
opportunities; including the U.S. Department of Energy approved Energy-Star
qualified appliance incentive programs that are currently being offered to
consumers by each U.S. state and territory through mid-2010.  These
rebates are being funded with $300 million from the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009. Under this program, eligible consumers can receive
rebates to purchase new energy-efficient appliances when they replace used
appliances.  We have a cross functional team in place to ensure we
have the best execution to be able to capitalize on any opportunities provided
by the upcoming government programs. 

OPERATIONS 

The
following tables set forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line
item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage
change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in
conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated
financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial
statements. 

1 
 EBIT margin is defined as
earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales (operating
margin).  

2   A comparable store is defined as a
store that has been open longer than 13 months.      A store that is identified for
relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its
relocation.  The relocated store must then remain open longer than 13
months to be considered comparable.  

         3
  Average ticket is
defined as net sales divided by the total number of customer
transactions.  

         4
  Average store size
selling square feet is defined as sales floor square feet divided by the number
of stores open at the end of the period.  

         5
  Return on average
assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last
five quarters.  

         6   Return on average shareholders 
equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders  equity for
the last five quarters.  

2009
Compared to 2008 

Net sales    Reflective of the
continued challenging sales environment, net sales decreased 2.1% to $47.2
billion in 2009.  Comparable store sales declined 6.7% in 2009
compared to a decline of 7.2% in 2008.  Total customer transactions
increased 3.4% compared to 2008, driven by our store expansion
program.  However, average ticket decreased 5.4% to $61.66, primarily
as a result of fewer project sales.  Comparable store customer
transactions declined 1.0%, and comparable store average ticket declined 5.7%
compared to 2008. 

Customers
continued to focus on routine maintenance and repairs instead of larger
discretionary projects during 2009.  We experienced solid sales
performance in paint and nursery as a result of the continued willingness of
homeowners to take on smaller DIY projects to maintain their homes and improve
their outdoor space.  The paint category had positive comparable store
sales performance for each quarter during 2009.  Appliances also
performed better than our average comparable store sales change driven by
attractive value and customers  willingness to invest in products that increase
energy efficiency.  However, certain of our other categories,
including windows   walls, cabinets   countertops, and millwork, which
are more discretionary in nature, experienced double-digit declines in
comparable store sales for the year. We also experienced continued weakness in
other categories, including rough electrical, lumber, and outdoor power
equipment which also experienced double-digit declines in comparable store sales
driven by comparisons to last year s hurricane-related spending. 

Due to
consumers  continued hesitancy to take on larger discretionary projects, we
experienced higher than average declines within all specialty sales categories
during 2009.  Special Order Sales had a 15.8% decline in comparable
store sales, due to weakness in cabinets   countertops, windows   walls,
lighting and millwork.  Comparable store Installed Sales declined
11.4% for 2009.  However, both Special Order Sales and Installed Sales
experienced sequential improvement in the third quarter of 2009, and positive
comparable store sales in the fourth quarter of 2009, as the economic pressures
lessened.  Sales to Commercial Business Customers declined 9.1% in
2009 driven by continued project delays within the remodel and repair
businesses. 

From a
geographic market perspective, we experienced continued pressure from the
declining housing market, with the most pronounced declines in the Mid-Atlantic
and Florida markets for the year.  Many areas were impacted by several
years of housing pressure as well as the financial markets.  However,
we have seen evidence of broad-based stabilization, as we experienced sequential
improvement in comparable store sales for all 50 states from the third to the
fourth quarter, and 26 states had positive comparable results in the fourth
quarter.  For 2009, the northeast and north-central markets performed
above the Company average, and for the fourth quarter of 2009 these areas
delivered positive comparable store sales results. As a result, we experienced a
comparable store sales decline of 1.6% for the fourth quarter, compared to a
decline of 6.7% for the year. 

Gross margin -  For 2009,
gross margin of 34.86% represented a 65 basis point increase from
2008.  Margin rate improvement contributed approximately 52 basis
points of this increase, primarily driven by a moderating promotional
environment and decreased seasonal markdowns.  The seasonal living
category experienced strong margin increases compared to the prior year driven
by reduced markdowns as a result of rationalizing purchase levels earlier in the
year.  The flooring and lighting product categories also experienced
strong improvement compared to the prior year driven by the more rational
promotional environment and our decision to not repeat certain prior year
promotions. In addition, margin was positively impacted by lower inventory
shrink, which provided 12 basis points of leverage. 

For the
fourth quarter of 2009, gross margin of 34.95% represented a 122 basis point
increase from the fourth quarter of 2008.  In the fourth quarter of
2008, we experienced lower margin rates as a result of our efforts to clear
seasonal inventory in our seasonal living and tools categories, as well as
markdowns associated with our decision to exit wallpaper.  In
addition, there has been a more rational promotional environment in the current
year, which positively impacted the seasonal living, windows   walls and
lighting categories. 

SG A -  The increase in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2008 to 2009 was primarily driven by
de-leverage of 61 basis points in store payroll. As sales per store declined, an
increased number of stores met the base staffing hours threshold, which
increased the proportion of fixed-to-total payroll.  Although this
created pressure on earnings, in the long-term it ensures that we maintain the
high service levels that customers have come to expect from Lowe s, and will
ensure we have a knowledgeable and engaged team in position as consumer demand
stabilizes.   We also experienced de-leverage of approximately 40
basis points in bonus expense attributable to higher achievement against
performance targets in the current year.  As a result of current year
performance and continued expansion rationalization, we experienced 20 basis
points of de-leverage associated with the write-off of new store projects that
we are no longer pursuing and long-lived asset impairment
charges.  Employee insurance costs also de-leveraged 18 basis points
as a result of rising health care expenses, higher enrollment and higher
administrative costs.  In the current year, credit programs
de-leveraged 16 basis points due to increases in aged losses and bankruptcies as
a result of higher unemployment and credit market tightening. 
Additionally, we experienced de-leverage of approximately 16 basis points in
fixed expenses such as property taxes, utilities and rent during the year as a
result of sales declines.  For the fourth quarter of 2009, SG A
de-leveraged 103 basis points as compared to the fourth quarter of
2008.  The de-leverage was primarily attributable to the same factors
that contributed to the de-leverage in SG A for the full year. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $49 million in 2009,
compared to $102 million in 2008.  These costs are associated with the
opening of 62 stores in 2009, as compared with the opening of 115 stores in
2008.  Store opening costs for stores opened during both 2009 and 2008
averaged approximately $0.8 million per store.  Because store opening
costs are expensed as incurred, the timing of expense recognition fluctuates
based on the timing of store openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 23 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2009.  This
de-leverage was driven by the comparable store sales declines and the addition
of 62 new stores in 2009.  Property, less accumulated depreciation,
decreased to $22.5 billion at January 29, 2010, compared to $22.7 billion at
January 30, 2009.  At January 29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, we owned
88% of our stores which included stores on leased land. 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Net
interest expense increased primarily as a result of the lower interest income
due to lower interest rates and lower capitalized interest associated with fewer
stores under construction, partially offset by lower interest associated with
favorable tax settlements during the year. 

Income tax provision -  Our
effective income tax rate was 36.9% in 2009 versus 37.4% in 2008.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to favorable state tax
settlements. 

2008
Compared to 2007 

Net sales    Reflective of the
challenging sales environment, net sales decreased 0.1% to $48.2 billion in
2008.  Comparable store sales declined 7.2% in 2008 compared to a
decline of 5.1% in 2007.  Total customer transactions increased 2.8%
compared to 2007, driven by our store expansion program.  However,
average ticket decreased 2.8% to $65.15, as a result of fewer project
sales.  Comparable store customer transactions declined 4.1%, and
comparable store average ticket declined 3.1% compared to 2007. 

           The sales
weakness we experienced was most pronounced in larger discretionary projects and
was the result of dramatic reductions in consumer spending.  Certain
of our project categories, including cabinets   countertops and millwork,
had double-digit declines in comparable store sales for 2008.  These
two project categories together with flooring were approximately 17% of our
total sales in 2008.  This is comparable to 2002 levels, after having
peaked at nearly 18.5% in 2006.  We also experienced continued
weakness in certain of our style categories, such as fashion plumbing, lighting
and windows   walls.  These product categories are also typically
more discretionary in nature and delivered double-digit declines in comparable
store sales for the year. 

Due to
consumers  hesitancy to take on larger discretionary projects, we experienced
mixed results within Specialty Sales during the year.  Special Order
Sales delivered a 9.5% decline in comparable store sales, due to continued
weakness in cabinets   countertops, fashion plumbing, lighting and
millwork.  Installed Sales performed above our average comparable
store sales change with a decline of 6.0% for 2008.  However, we
experienced low double-digit declines in comparable store sales in the third and
fourth quarters of 2008 as the economic environment
worsened.  Commercial Business Customer sales continued to deliver
above-average comparable store sales throughout this industry downturn as a
result of our targeted efforts to focus on the professional tradesperson,
property maintenance professional and the repair/remodeler. 

We
experienced solid sales performance due to increased demand for
hurricane-related products, which helped drive a comparable store sales increase
in building materials and above-average comparable store sales changes in
outdoor power equipment and hardware.  Favorable comparisons due to
2007 s drought conditions contributed to above-average comparable store sales
changes in our lawn   landscape products and nursery
categories.  The continued willingness of homeowners to take on
smaller projects to improve their outdoor space and maintain their homes also
contributed to the above-average comparable store sales change in our nursery
category, as well as in paint and home environment.  Other categories
that performed above our average comparable store sales change included
appliances and rough plumbing, while flooring and seasonal living performed at
approximately the overall corporate average. 

From a
geographic market perspective, we experienced a wide range of comparable store
sales performance during the first three quarters of 2008.  Markets in
the Western U.S. and Florida, which include some of the markets most pressured
by the declining housing market, experienced double-digit declines in comparable
store sales during each of the first three quarters of the
year.  Contrasting those markets we saw solid sales results in our
markets in Texas, Oklahoma, certain areas of the Northeast and parts of the
upper Midwest and Ohio Valley during the same period.  However, in the
fourth quarter of 2008, the economic pressures on consumers intensified as
unemployment swelled, resulting in a further decline in consumer confidence and
consumer spending.  This impacted all of our geographic markets, and
resulted in a comparable store sales decline of 9.9% for the fourth quarter,
compared to a decline of 7.2% for the year. 

Gross margin -  For 2008,
gross margin of 34.21% represented a 43-basis-point decrease from
2007.  This decrease was primarily driven by carpet installation and
other promotions, which negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 21
basis points.  We also saw a decline of approximately 14 basis points
due to higher fuel prices during the first half of the year and de-leverage in
distribution fixed costs.  Additionally, markdowns associated with our
decision to exit wallpaper reduced gross margin by approximately three basis
points.  The de-leverage from these factors was partially offset by a
positive impact of approximately 12 basis points from lower inventory shrink and
approximately four basis points attributable to the mix of products
sold. 

SG A -  The increase in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2007 to 2008 was primarily driven by
de-leverage of 70 basis points in store payroll. As sales per store declined,
additional stores met the base staffing hours threshold, which increased the
proportion of fixed-to-total payroll.  Although this created
short-term pressure on earnings, in the long-term 

it
ensured that we maintained the high service levels that customers have come to
expect from Lowe s.  The resulting de-leverage in store payroll was
partially offset by leverage of 31 basis points of in-store service expense, due
to the shifting of certain tasks from third-party, in-store service groups to
store employees.  The offsetting impact of these two factors resulted
in net de-leverage of 39 basis points.  We  experienced
de-leverage of approximately 21 basis points in fixed expenses such as property
taxes, utilities and rent during the year as a result of softer
sales.  Additionally, we experienced 11 basis points of de-leverage
associated with the write-off of new store projects that we are no longer
pursuing and a long-lived asset impairment charge for open stores.  We
also experienced de-leverage of approximately nine basis points in bonus expense
attributable to higher achievement against performance targets in 2008, and
de-leverage of seven basis points in retirement plan expenses due to changes in
the 401(k) Plan that increased our matching contribution relative to the prior
year. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $102 million in
2008, compared to $141 million in 2007.  These costs are associated
with the opening of 115 stores in 2008, as compared with the opening of 153
stores in 2007 (149 new and four relocated).  Store opening costs for
stores opened during the year averaged approximately $0.8 million and $0.9
million per store in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Because store
opening costs are expensed as incurred, the timing of expense recognition
fluctuates based on the timing of store openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 36 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2008.  This
de-leverage was driven by the addition of 115 new stores in 2008 and the
comparable store sales decline.  Property, less accumulated
depreciation, increased to $22.7 billion at January 30, 2009, compared to $21.4
billion at February 1, 2008.  At January 30, 2009, we owned 88% of our
stores, compared to 87% at February 1, 2008, which includes stores on leased
land. 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Interest
expense increased primarily as a result of the September 2007 $1.3 billion debt
issuance and lower capitalized interest associated with fewer stores under
construction. 

Income tax provision    Our
effective tax rate was 37.4% in 2008 versus 37.7% in 2007.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in federal and state
tax credits as a percentage of taxable income in 2008 versus the prior
year. 

LOWE S
BUSINESS OUTLOOK 

As of
February 22, 2010, the date of our fourth quarter 2009 earnings release, we
expected to open 40 to 45 stores during 2010, resulting in total square footage
growth of approximately 2%.  We expected total sales in 2010 to
increase 4% to 6% and comparable store sales to increase 1% to
3%.  Earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales
(operating margin) was expected to increase 40 to 50 basis points. Depreciation
expense was expected to be approximately $1.62 billion.  Diluted
earnings per share of $1.30 to $1.42 were expected for the year ending January
28, 2011.  While we expect to make share repurchases during 2010, our
outlook for 2010 does not assume any share repurchases. 

FINANCIAL
CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash
Flows 

Cash
flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our
liquidity.  The decrease in net cash flows provided by operating
activities for 2009 versus 2008 was primarily driven by lower net earnings,
partially offset by working capital improvements.  The decrease in net
cash used in investing activities for 2009 versus 2008 was driven by a 45%
decline in property acquired due to a reduction in our store expansion
program.  The increase in cash used in financing activities for 2009
versus 2008 was attributable to approximately $1.0 billion of net repayment
activity in 2009 related to short-term borrowings and $500 million in share
repurchases under our share repurchase program in 2009, partially offset by the
redemption in June 2008 of our convertible notes. 

Sources
of Liquidity 

In
addition to our cash flows from operations, liquidity is provided by our
short-term borrowing facilities.  We have a $1.75 billion senior
credit facility that expires in June 2012.  The senior credit facility
supports our commercial paper and revolving credit programs.  The
senior credit facility has a $500 million letter of credit
sublimit.  Amounts outstanding under letters of credit reduce the
amount available for borrowing under the senior credit
facility.  Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates
based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms
of the senior credit facility. The senior credit facility contains certain
restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio, as
defined by the senior credit facility.  We were in compliance with
those covenants at January 29, 2010.  Nineteen banking institutions
are participating in the senior credit facility.  As of January 29,
2010, there were no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit outstanding
under the senior credit facility and no outstanding borrowings under the
commercial paper program. 

We have a
Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility in the amount of C$50 million
that provides revolving credit support for our Canadian
operations.  This uncommitted credit facility provides us with the
ability to make unsecured borrowings which are priced at fixed rates based upon
market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the
credit facility.  As of January 29, 2010, there were no borrowings
outstanding under this credit facility. 

Our debt
ratings at January 29, 2010, were as follows: 

Current
      Debt Ratings 

S P 

Moody s 

Fitch 

Commercial
      Paper 

A1  

P1  

F1  

Senior
      Debt 

A+  

A1  

A+  

Outlook 

Negative 

Stable 

Negative 

On March
25, 2010, Fitch affirmed our commercial paper rating at F1, affirmed our senior
debt rating at A+, and changed our outlook from negative to stable. 

We
believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be
adequate for our expansion plans and for our other operating requirements over
the next 12 months.  The availability of funds through the issuance of
commercial paper or new debt or the borrowing cost of these funds could be
adversely affected due to a debt rating downgrade, which we do not expect, or a
deterioration of certain financial ratios.  There are no provisions in
any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or
leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock
price. 

Cash
Requirements 

Capital
expenditures 

Our 2010
capital budget is approximately $2.1 billion, inclusive of approximately $400
million of lease commitments, resulting in a planned net cash outflow of $1.7
billion.  Approximately 62% of the planned net cash outflow is for
store 

expansion
and approximately 21% is for investment in our existing stores through resets
and remerchandising.  Our store expansion plans for 2010 consist of 40
to 45 new stores and are expected to increase sales floor square footage by
approximately 2%.  Approximately 93% of the 2010 projects will be owned, of
which 43% will be ground-leased.  Other planned capital expenditures
include investing in our distribution and corporate infrastructure, including
enhancements in information technology.    

During
2009, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Australian retailer
Woolworths Limited, to develop a chain of home improvement stores in
Australia.  We expect to contribute approximately $100 million per year
over four years to the joint venture, of which we are a one-third
owner. 

At
January 29, 2010, we owned and operated 14 regional distribution
centers.  At January 29, 2010, we also operated 15 flatbed
distribution centers for the handling of lumber, building materials and other
long-length items.  We are confident that our current distribution
network has the capacity to ensure that our stores remain in stock and that
customer demand is met. 

Debt
and capital 

The $500
million 8.25% Notes due June 1, 2010 will be repaid with net cash provided by
operating and financing activities. 

Dividends
declared during 2009 totaled $522 million.  The decline in cash
dividend payments from $491 million in 2008 to $391 million in 2009 was
primarily due to a shift in the timing of dividend payments for dividends
declared in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Dividends declared in the
fourth quarter of 2009 were paid in 2010 and totaled $131 million. 

Our share
repurchase program is implemented through purchases made from time to time
either in the open market or through private transactions.  Shares
purchased under the share repurchase program are retired and returned to
authorized and unissued status.   Authorization available for
share repurchases under the program during 2009 expired as of January 29,
2010.  However, on January 29, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized
an additional $5 billion in share repurchases with no expiration.  We
expect to utilize the $5 billion authorization over the next three
years. 

The ratio
of debt to equity plus debt was 21.0% and 25.1% as of January 29, 2010, and
January 30, 2009, respectively. 

OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Other
than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any
off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a
material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital
resources. 

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

The
following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and
commercial commitments: 

1     Amounts do not include taxes, common
area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have
historically been insignificant.  

         2 
 Represents commitments related
to certain marketing and information technology programs, purchases of
merchandise inventory and construction of buildings.  

         3 
 Letters of credit are issued
for the purchase of import merchandise inventories, real estate and construction
contracts, and insurance programs.  

         4 
 Surety bonds are issued
primarily to secure payment of workers  compensation liability claims in states
where we are self-insured.  

At
January 29, 2010, approximately $9 million of the reserve for uncertain tax
positions (including penalties and interest) was classified as a current
liability and $160 million was classified as a non-current
liability.  At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable
estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months, due to
uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax
positions. 

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated
financial statements presented in this annual report requires us to make
estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and
expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities.  We base these estimates on historical results and
various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis
for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual results may
differ from these estimates. 

Our
significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect
the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the
consolidated financial statements. 

Merchandise
Inventory 

Description 

        We record
an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling
inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on our current
knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical
experience.  During 2009, our reserve decreased approximately $9
million to $49 million as of January 29, 2010. 

We also
record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical
inventories.  This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage
results from previous physical inventories.  During 2009, the
inventory shrinkage reserve increased approximately $9 million to $138 million
as of January 29, 2010. 

In
addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business,
principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions
of vendors  products, which generally do not represent the reimbursement of
specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the
vendor s product.  We treat these funds as a reduction in the cost of
inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction
of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

        We do not
believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of
obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing
practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions.
However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product
quality could result in the need for additional reserves.  Likewise,
changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing
and results of physical inventories.  We also apply judgment in the
determination of levels of non-productive inventory and assumptions about net
realizable value. 

For
vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements
in place.  Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual
vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and
volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm
actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are
appropriately recorded.  Amounts accrued throughout the year could be
impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes,
especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when
graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

        We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory
valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage
during the past three years.  We believe that we have sufficient
current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of
these inventory reserves.  However, it is possible that actual results
could differ from recorded reserves.  A 10% change in the amount of
products considered obsolete and, therefore, included in the calculation of our
obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately
$3 million for 2009.  A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage
rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrinkage reserve would
have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million for 2009. 

We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds
during the past three years.  If actual results are not consistent
with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional
adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and
inventory.  However, substantially all receivables associated with
these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are
collected within the following year.  Adjustments to gross margin and
inventory in the following year have historically not been
material. 

Long-Lived
Asset Impairment - Operating Stores 

Description 

        At
January 29, 2010, $19.2 billion of our long-lived assets were associated with
stores currently in operation.  We review the carrying amounts of
operating stores whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  When evaluating operating
stores for impairment, our asset group is at an individual store
level, 

as that
is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable.  Cash flows
for individual operating stores do not include an allocation of corporate
overhead. 

We
evaluate operating stores on a quarterly basis to determine when store assets
may not be recoverable.  Our primary indicator that operating store
assets may not be recoverable is consistently negative cash flow for a 12 month
period for those stores that have been open in the same location for a
sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating
results.  Management also monitors other factors when evaluating
operating stores for impairment, including individual stores  execution of their
operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the
opening of either other Lowe s stores or direct competitors  stores within the
same market. 

For
operating stores, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition
of the store assets are less than the carrying amount of the
assets.  When determining the stream of projected future cash flows
associated with an individual operating store, management makes assumptions,
incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales
growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and
occupancy expense. 

An
impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating store is
not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.  We generally use an
income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating stores,
which requires discounting projected future cash flows.  This involves
making assumptions regarding both a store s future cash flows, as described
above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those
future cash flows.  We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate
commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the
cash flows.  The selected market participants represent a group of
other retailers with a store footprint similar in size to ours. 

We
recorded operating store impairment losses of $53 million during 2009 compared
to $16 million during 2008. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

        Our
impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected
future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and controllable expenses
and assumptions about market performance.  We also apply judgment in
estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount
rate. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

        We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the future
cash flows of operating stores during the past three years.  If the
actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions
and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset
fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary positively or negatively
from our estimated impairment losses.   A 10% reduction in
projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the time that the
operating stores were evaluated for impairment would have increased recognized
impairment losses by $31 million.  A 10% increase in projected sales
used to estimate future cash flows at the time that the operating stores were
evaluated for impairment would have reduced recognized impairment losses by $3
million.  We analyzed other assumptions made in estimating the future
cash flows of the operating stores evaluated for impairment, but the sensitivity
of those assumptions was not significant to the estimates. 

Self-Insurance 

Description 

        We are
self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation, automobile,
property, general and product liability,   extended warranty,
 and certain medical
and dental  claims.  Self-insurance claims filed and claims
incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted
ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions
followed in the insurance industry and historical experience.  During
2009, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $41 million to $792
million as of January 29, 2010. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate  

        These
estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized
discount rate; projected exposures including payroll, sales, and vehicle units;
as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

        We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our
self-insurance liability during the past three years.  Although
we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to
claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded
self-insurance liabilities.  A 10% change in our self-insurance
liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $50 million for
2009.  A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have
affected net earnings by approximately $14 million for 2009. 

Revenue
Recognition 

Description 

        See Note
1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenue
recognition policies.  The following accounting estimates relating to
revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply judgment
regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with
certainty. 

We sell
separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a Lowe s-branded program for
which we are ultimately self-insured.  We recognize revenues from
extended warranty sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract
term due to a lack of sufficient historical evidence indicating that costs of
performing services under the contracts are incurred on other than a
straight-line basis.  Extended warranty contract terms primarily range
from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the
manufacturer s warranty, as applicable.  We consistently group and
evaluate extended warranty contracts based on the characteristics of the
underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected
losses.  A loss would be recognized if the expected costs of
performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized
acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the
contracts.  Deferred revenues associated with the extended warranty
contracts increased $70 million to $549 million as of January 29,
2010. 

We defer
revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which customers have
not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet
been completed.  Revenue is deferred based on the actual amounts
received.  We use historical gross margin rates to estimate the
adjustment to cost of sales for these transactions.  During 2009,
deferred revenues associated with these transactions increased $26 million to
$354 million as of January 29, 2010. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

        For
extended warranties, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected
losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended
warranty contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of
the contracts.  There is also judgment inherent in our determination
of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these
contracts. 

For the
deferral of revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which
customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation
has not yet been completed, there is judgment inherent in our estimates of gross
margin rates. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

        We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on
our extended warranty contracts during the past three years.  We
currently do not anticipate incurring any losses on our extended warranty
contracts.  Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately
monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended warranty contracts, it
is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates.  In
addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services
under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the
timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change.  A
10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2009 under these contracts
would have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million. 

We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to reverse net sales and
cost of sales related to amounts received for which customers have not yet taken
possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been
completed.  We believe we have sufficient current and historical
knowledge to record reasonable estimates related to the impact to cost of sales
for these transactions.  However, if actual results are not consistent
with our estimates or assumptions, we may incur additional income or
expense.  A 10% change in the estimate of the gross margin rates
applied to these transactions would have affected net earnings by approximately
$6 million in 2009. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK  

In
addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain
market risks, including changes in interest rates, commodity prices and foreign
currency exchange rates. 

Interest
Rate Risk 

Fluctuations
in interest rates do not have a material impact on our financial condition and
results of operations because our long-term debt is carried at amortized cost
and primarily consists of fixed rate instruments.  Therefore providing
quantitative information about interest rate risk is not meaningful for
financial instruments. 

Commodity
Price Risk 

We
purchase certain commodity products that are subject to price volatility caused
by factors beyond our control.  We believe that the price volatility
of these products is mitigated by our selling prices and through fixed-price
supply agreements with vendors.  The selling prices of these commodity
products are influenced, in part, by the market price we pay, which is
determined by industry supply and demand. 

Foreign
Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

Although
we have international operating entities, our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations is not material to our financial condition and
results of operations. 

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS  

We speak
throughout this Annual Report in forward-looking statements about our future,
particularly in the  Letter to Shareholders  and  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   The words
 believe,   expect,   will,   should,  and other similar expressions are
intended to identify those forward-looking statements.  While we
believe our expectations are reasonable, they are not guarantees of future
performance.  Our actual results could differ substantially from our
expectations because, for example: 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy, which
we believe is recovering slowly from a prolonged period of recession that was
made worse by the severe accompanying financial/credit
crisis.  Continued high rates of unemployment, the psychological
effect of falling home prices, reduced access to credit and reduced consumer
confidence have combined to lead to sharply reduced consumer spending,
particularly on many of the discretionary, bigger-ticket products we
sell.  In addition, changes in the level of repairs, remodeling and
additions to existing homes, changes in commercial building activity, and the
availability and cost of mortgage financing can impact our
business. 

Major
weather-related events and unseasonable weather may negatively impact our sales
particularly of seasonal merchandise.  Prolonged and widespread
drought conditions could, for example, hurt our sales of lawn and garden and
related products. 

Our
expansion strategy is impacted by economic conditions, environmental
regulations, local zoning issues, availability and development of land, and more
stringent land-use regulations. Furthermore, our ability to secure a highly
qualified workforce is an important element to the success of our expansion
strategy. 

Our
business is highly competitive, and, as we build an increasing percentage of our
new stores in larger markets and utilize new sales channels such as the
internet, we may face new and additional forms of
competition.  Promotional pricing and competitor liquidation
activities during challenging economic periods such as we are continuing to
experience may increase competition and adversely affect our
business. 

The
ability to continue our everyday low pricing strategy and provide the products
that customers want depends on our vendors providing a reliable supply of
products at competitive prices and our ability to effectively manage our
inventory. As an increasing number of the products we sell are imported, any
restrictions or limitations on importation of such products, political or
financial instability in some of the countries from which we import them, or a
failure to comply with laws and regulations of those countries from which we
import them could interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  The
current global recession from which we are beginning to recover and credit
crisis that continues to some extent have adversely affected the operations and
financial stability of some of our vendors by reducing their sales and
restricting their access to capital. 

Our
goal of increasing our market share and our commitment to keeping our prices low
requires us to make substantial investments in new technology and processes
whose benefits could take longer than expected to be realized and which could be
difficult to implement and integrate. 

Changes
in existing or new laws and regulations that affect employment/labor, trade,
product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or
environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly or indirectly, on
our financial condition and results of operations. 

For more
information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed
to, you should read the  Risk Factors  included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All
forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this
report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of
that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the
cautionary statements in this section and in the  Risk Factors  included in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or
publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events,
circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this
report. 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING  

Management
of Lowe s Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (Internal
Control) as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.  Our Internal Control was designed to provide reasonable
assurance to our management and the Board of Directors regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of
published financial statements. 

All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or
overriding of controls.  Therefore, even those systems determined to be
effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the reliability
of financial reporting and financial statement preparation and
presentation.  Further, because of changes in conditions, the
effectiveness may vary over time. 

Our
management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our Internal Control as
of January 29, 2010.  In evaluating our Internal Control, we used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on our management's assessment, we
have concluded that, as of January 29, 2010, our Internal Control is
effective. 

Deloitte
  Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited
the financial statements contained in this report, was engaged to audit our
Internal Control. Their report appears on page 29. 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM  

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lowe's Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 29, 2010 and January 30, 2009,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended January 29,
2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Company at January 29, 2010 and January
30, 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three fiscal years in the period ended January 29, 2010, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of January 29, 2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated March 30, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      March 30,
2010 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Lowe's Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 29, 2010, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. 

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of January 29, 2010, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 of the Company and our report dated
March 30, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      March 30,
2010 

NOTES TO  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

      YEARS
ENDED JANUARY 29, 2010, JANUARY 30, 2009 AND FEBRUARY 1, 2008 

NOTE
1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is the world's second-largest
home improvement retailer and operated 1,710 stores in the United States and
Canada at January 29, 2010.  Below are those accounting policies
considered by the Company to be significant. 

Fiscal Year -  The Company s
fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest the end of January.  Each of
the fiscal years presented contained 52 weeks. All references herein for the
years 2009, 2008 and 2007 represent the fiscal years ended January 29, 2010,
January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008, respectively. 

Principles of Consolidation  -
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly-owned or controlled operating subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated. 

Foreign Currency  - The
functional currencies of the Company s international subsidiaries are primarily
the local currencies of the countries in which the subsidiaries are located.
Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into U.S.
dollars using the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet
date. Results of operations and cash flows are translated using the average
exchange rates throughout the period. The effect of exchange rate fluctuations
on translation of assets and liabilities is included as a component of
shareholders' equity in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains and
losses from foreign currency transactions, which are included in selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expense, have not been
significant. 

Use of Estimates  - The
preparation of the Company s financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates on historical
results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which
form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents  -
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term
investments with original maturities of three months or less when
purchased.  Cash and cash equivalents are carried at amortized cost on
the consolidated balance sheets.  The majority of payments due from
financial institutions for the settlement of credit card and debit card
transactions process within two business days and are, therefore, classified as
cash and cash equivalents. 

Investments  - The Company has
a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not
expected to be used in current operations in financial instruments that have
maturities of up to 10 years. Variable-rate demand notes, which have stated
maturity dates in excess of 10 years, meet this maturity requirement of the cash
management program because the maturity date of these investments is determined
based on the interest rate reset date or par value put date for the purpose of
applying this criteria. 

Investments,
exclusive of cash equivalents, with a stated maturity date of one year or less
from the balance sheet date or that are expected to be used in current
operations, are classified as short-term investments. The Company s trading
securities are also classified as short-term investments.  All other
investments are classified as long-term. As of January 29, 2010, investments
consisted primarily of municipal bonds, money market funds,  mutual
funds, tax-exempt commercial paper, and certificates of
deposit.  Restricted balances pledged as collateral for letters of
credit for the Company s extended warranty program and for a portion of the
Company s casualty insurance and Installed Sales program liabilities are also
classified as investments. 

The
Company maintains investment securities in conjunction with certain employee
benefit plans that are classified as trading securities.  These
securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses
included in SG A 

expense.  All
other investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried
at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders' equity. 

Merchandise Inventory  -
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out
method of inventory accounting. The cost of inventory also includes certain
costs associated with the preparation of inventory for resale, including
distribution center costs, and is net of vendor funds. 

The
Company records an inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with
selling inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on management s
current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical
experience. Management does not believe the Company s merchandise inventories
are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and management
has the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends
and general economic conditions.  However, changes in consumer
purchasing patterns could result in the need for additional
reserves.  The Company also records an inventory reserve for the
estimated shrinkage between physical inventories.  This reserve is
based primarily on actual shrink results from previous physical
inventories.  Changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary
based on the timing and results of physical inventories. 

The
Company receives funds from vendors in the normal course of business,
principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions
of vendors  products, which generally do not represent the reimbursement of
specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred by the Company to sell the
vendor s product.  These funds are treated as a reduction in the cost
of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and are recognized as a reduction of
cost of sales when the inventory is sold.  The Company develops
accrual rates for vendor funds based on the provisions of the agreements in
place.  Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor
agreements, the Company performs analyses and reviews historical trends
throughout the year and confirms actual amounts with select vendors to ensure
the amounts earned are appropriately recorded.  Amounts accrued
throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from
projected annual purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that
provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are
met. 

Derivative   Financial Instruments  - The
Company occasionally utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage certain
business risks.  However, the amounts were not material to the
Company s consolidated financial statements in any of the years
presented.  The Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. 

Credit Programs  - The majority
of the Company s accounts receivable arises from sales of goods and services to
Commercial Business Customers. The Company has an agreement with GE Money Bank
(GE) under which GE purchases at face value new commercial business accounts
receivable originated by the Company and services these
accounts.  This agreement ends in December 2016, unless terminated
sooner by the parties.  The Company accounts for these transfers as
sales of the accounts receivable.  When the Company sells its
commercial business accounts receivable, it retains certain interests in those
receivables, including the funding of a loss reserve and its obligation related
to GE s ongoing servicing of the receivables sold.  Any gain or loss
on the sale is determined based on the previous carrying amounts of the
transferred assets allocated at fair value between the receivables sold and the
interests retained. Fair value is based on the present value of expected future
cash flows, taking into account the key assumptions of anticipated credit
losses, payment rates, late fee rates, GE s servicing costs and the discount
rate commensurate with the uncertainty involved.  Due to the
short-term nature of the receivables sold, changes to the key assumptions would
not materially impact the recorded gain or loss on the sales of receivables or
the fair value of the retained interests in the receivables. 

Total
commercial business accounts receivable sold to GE were $1.6 billion in 2009,
$1.7 billion in 2008, and $1.8 billion in 2007.  During 2009, 2008 and
2007, the Company recognized losses of $31 million, $38 million and $34 million,
respectively, on these receivable sales as SG A expense, which primarily
relates to the fair value of the obligations incurred related to servicing costs
that are remitted to GE monthly.  At January 29, 2010 and January 30,
2009, the fair value of the retained interests was determined based on the
present value of expected future cash flows and was insignificant. 

Sales
generated through the Company s proprietary credit cards are not reflected in
receivables.  Under an agreement with GE, credit is extended directly
to customers by GE.  All credit-program-related services are performed
and controlled directly by GE.  The Company has the option, but no
obligation, to purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement
in 

December
2016.  Tender costs, including amounts associated with accepting the
Company s proprietary credit cards, are recorded in SG A expense in the
consolidated statements of earnings. 

The total
portfolio of receivables held by GE, including both receivables originated by GE
from the Company s proprietary credit cards and commercial business accounts
receivable originated by the Company and sold to GE, approximated $6.5 billion
at January 29, 2010, and $6.8 billion at January 30, 2009. 

Property and Depreciation  -
Property is recorded at cost. Costs associated with major additions are
capitalized and depreciated. Capital assets are expected to yield future
benefits and have useful lives which exceed one year.  The total cost
of a capital asset generally includes all applicable sales taxes, delivery
costs, installation costs and other appropriate costs incurred by the Company
including interest in the case of self-constructed assets.  Upon
disposal, the cost of properties and related accumulated depreciation are
removed from the accounts, with gains and losses reflected in SG A expense
on the consolidated statements of earnings. 

Depreciation
is provided over the estimated useful lives of the depreciable assets. Assets
are depreciated using the straight-line method. Assets under capital lease and
leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated
useful lives or the term of the related lease, which may include one or more
option renewal periods where failure to exercise such options would result in an
economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the inception of the
lease, to be reasonably assured.  During the term of a lease, if
leasehold improvements are placed in service significantly after the inception
of the lease, the Company depreciates these leasehold improvements over the
shorter of the useful life of the leasehold assets or a term that includes lease
renewal periods deemed to be reasonably assured at the time the leasehold
improvements are placed into service.  The amortization of these
assets is included in depreciation expense on the consolidated financial
statements. 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment/Exit
Activities  -   The carrying amounts of
long-lived assets are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 

Long-lived
assets held-for-use includes operating stores as well as excess properties, such
as relocated stores, closed stores and other properties, which do not meet the
held-for-sale criteria. A potential impairment has occurred for long-lived
assets held-for-use if projected future undiscounted cash flows expected to
result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets are less than the
carrying amounts of the assets.  An impairment loss is recorded for
long-lived assets held-for-use when the carrying amount of the asset is not
recoverable and exceeds its fair value. 

Excess
properties that are expected to be sold within the next 12 months and meet the
other relevant held-for-sale criteria are classified as long-lived assets
held-for-sale.  An impairment loss is recorded for long-lived assets
held-for-sale when the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less
cost to sell.  A long-lived asset is not depreciated while it is
classified as held-for-sale. 

For
long-lived assets to be abandoned, the Company considers the asset to be
disposed of when it ceases to be used.  Until it ceases to be used,
the Company continues to classify the asset as held-for-use and tests for
potential impairment accordingly.  If the Company commits to a plan to
abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful
life, its depreciable life is re-evaluated. 

Impairment
losses are included in SG A expense.  The Company recorded
long-lived asset impairment losses of $114 million during 2009, including $53
million for operating stores and $61 million for excess
properties.  The Company recorded long-lived asset impairment losses
of $21 million during 2008, including $16 million for operating stores and $5
million for excess properties.  The Company recorded long-lived asset
impairment losses of $28 million during 2007 for excess properties. 

The net
carrying amount of excess properties that do not meet the held-for-sale criteria
is included in other assets (non-current) on the consolidated balance sheets and
totaled $205 million and $174 million at January 29, 2010 and January 30, 2009,
respectively. 

When
operating leased locations are closed, a liability is recognized for the fair
value of future contractual obligations, including future minimum lease
payments, property taxes, utilities and common area maintenance, net of
estimated sublease income. 

Leases  - For lease agreements
that provide for escalating rent payments or free-rent occupancy periods, the
Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable
lease term and option renewal periods where failure to exercise such options
would result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  The lease term
commences on the date that the Company takes possession of or controls the
physical use of the property.  Deferred rent is included in other
liabilities (non-current) on the consolidated balance sheets. 

Accounts Payable -  The Company
has an agreement with a third party to provide an accounts payable tracking
system which facilitates participating suppliers  ability to finance payment
obligations from the Company with designated third-party financial
institutions.  Participating suppliers may, at their sole discretion,
make offers to finance one or more payment obligations of the Company prior to
their scheduled due dates at a discounted price to participating financial
institutions.  The Company s goal in entering into this arrangement is to
capture overall supply chain savings, in the form of pricing, payment terms or
vendor funding, created by facilitating suppliers  ability to finance payment
obligations at more favorable discount rates, while providing them with greater
working capital flexibility. 

The
Company s obligations to its suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled
payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers  decisions to finance amounts under
this arrangement.  However, the Company s right to offset balances due from
suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by this arrangement for
those payment obligations that have been financed by suppliers.  As of
January 29, 2010 and January 30, 2009, $602 million and $393 million,
respectively, of the Company s outstanding payment obligations had been placed
on the accounts payable tracking system, and participating suppliers had
financed $253 million and $370 million, respectively, of those payment
obligations to participating financial institutions. 

Self-Insurance  - The Company
is self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation,
automobile, property, and general and product liability claims.  The
Company has stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure arising from these
claims.  The Company is also self-insured for certain losses relating
to extended warranty and medical and dental claims.  Self-insurance
claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon
management s estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims
incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and
historical experience.  Although management believes it has the
ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that
actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance
liabilities. 

Income Taxes  - The Company
establishes deferred income tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences
between the tax and financial accounting bases of assets and
liabilities.  The tax effects of such differences are reflected in the
balance sheet at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the
differences reverse.  A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that all or
a portion of the asset will not be realized.  The tax balances and
income tax expense recognized by the Company are based on management s
interpretation of the tax statutes of multiple jurisdictions. 

The
Company establishes a liability for tax positions for which there is uncertainty
as to whether or not the position will be ultimately sustained.  The
Company includes interest related to tax issues as part of net interest on the
consolidated financial statements.  The Company records any applicable
penalties related to tax issues within the income tax provision. 

Revenue Recognition -  The
Company recognizes revenues, net of sales tax, when sales transactions occur and
customers take possession of the merchandise. A provision for anticipated
merchandise returns is provided through a reduction of sales and cost of sales
in the period that the related sales are recorded.  Revenues from
product installation services are recognized when the installation is
completed.  Deferred revenues associated with amounts received for
which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which
installation has not yet been completed were $354 million and $328 million at
January 29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, respectively. 

Revenues
from stored-value cards, which include gift cards and returned merchandise
credits, are deferred and recognized when the cards are redeemed.  The
liability associated with outstanding stored-value cards was $329 million and
$346 million at January 29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, respectively, and these
amounts are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance
sheets. The Company
recognizes income from unredeemed stored-value cards at the point at which
redemption becomes remote.  The Company s stored-value cards have no
expiration date or dormancy fees.  Therefore, to determine when
redemption is remote, the Company analyzes an aging of the unredeemed cards
based on the date of last stored-value card use.    

Extended Warranties -  The
Company sells separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a
Lowe s-branded program for which the Company is ultimately
self-insured.  The Company recognizes revenue from extended warranty
sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract
term.  Extended warranty contract terms primarily range from one to
four years from the date of purchase or the end of the manufacturer s warranty,
as applicable.  The Company s extended warranty deferred revenue is
included in other liabilities (non-current) on the consolidated balance
sheets.  Changes in deferred revenue for extended warranty contracts
are summarized as follows: 

Incremental
direct acquisition costs associated with the sale of extended warranties are
also deferred and recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the
respective contract term. Deferred costs associated with extended warranty
contracts were $150 million and $121 million at January 29, 2010 and January 30,
2009, respectively.  The Company s extended warranty deferred costs
are included in other assets (non-current) on the consolidated balance
sheets.  All other costs, such as costs of services performed under
the contract, general and administrative expenses and advertising expenses are
expensed as incurred. 

The
liability for extended warranty claims incurred is included in other current
liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.  Changes in the
liability for extended warranty claims are summarized as follows: 

Cost of Sales and Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses -  The following lists the primary costs
classified in each major expense category: 

Cost
      of Sales 

Selling,
      General and Administrative 

Total
      cost of products sold, including: 

                    -     Purchase
      costs, net of vendor funds; 

                    -     Freight
      expenses associated with moving merchandise inventories from vendors to
      retail stores; 

                    -     Costs
      associated with operating the Company s distribution network, including
      payroll and benefit costs and occupancy costs; 

                          Costs
      of installation services provided; 

                          Costs
      associated with delivery of products directly from vendors to customers by
      third parties; 

                          Costs
      associated with inventory shrinkage and obsolescence. 

Payroll
      and benefit costs for retail and corporate employees; 

                          Occupancy
      costs of retail and corporate facilities; 

                          Advertising; 

                          Costs
      associated with delivery of products from stores to
customers; 

                          Third-party,
      in-store service costs; 

                          Tender
      costs, including bank charges, costs associated with credit card
      interchange fees and amounts associated with accepting the Company s
      proprietary credit cards; 

                          Costs
      associated with self-insured plans, and premium costs for stop-loss
      coverage and fully insured plans; 

                          Long-lived
      asset impairment losses and gains/losses on disposal of
      assets; 

                          Other
      administrative costs, such as supplies, and travel and
      entertainment. 

Advertising  - Costs associated
with advertising are charged to expense as incurred.  Advertising
expenses were $750 million, $789 million and $788 million in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively. 

Shipping and Handling Costs  -
The Company includes shipping and handling costs relating to the delivery of
products directly from vendors to customers by third parties in cost of
sales.  Shipping and handling costs, which include third party
delivery costs, salaries, and vehicle operations expenses relating to the
delivery of products from stores to customers, are classified as SG A
expense.  Shipping and handling costs included in SG A expense
were $371 million, $378 million and $361 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

Store Opening Costs  - Costs of
opening new or relocated retail stores, which include payroll and supply costs
incurred prior to store opening and grand opening advertising costs, are charged
to expense as incurred. 

Comprehensive Income  - The
Company reports comprehensive income on its consolidated statements of
shareholders  equity.  Comprehensive income represents changes in
shareholders' equity from non-owner sources and is comprised primarily of net
earnings plus or minus unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale
securities, as well as foreign currency translation
adjustments.  Unrealized gains, net of tax, on available-for-sale
securities classified in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the
consolidated balance sheets were $2 million at both of January 29, 2010 and
January 30, 2009.  Foreign currency translation gains, net of tax,
classified in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were $25 million at
January 29, 2010. Foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, classified in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were $8 million at January 30,
2009.  The reclassification adjustments for gains/losses included in
net earnings were not significant for any of the periods presented. 

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements -  In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance which amends the derecognition
guidance on accounting for transfers of financial assets.  The
guidance is effective for financial asset transfers occurring in fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2009, and interim periods within those fiscal
years.  The adoption of the guidance will not have a material impact
on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 

In June
2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which amends the consolidation
guidance for variable interest entities.  The guidance is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, and interim periods within
those 

fiscal
years.  The adoption of the guidance will not have a material impact
on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 

In
October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable
revenue arrangements, which addresses the unit of accounting for arrangements
involving multiple deliverables.  The guidance also addresses how
arrangement consideration should be allocated to separate units of accounting,
when applicable, and expands the disclosure requirements for
multiple-deliverable arrangements.  The guidance is effective for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2010.  The Company does not expect the
adoption of the guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements. 

In
January 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to fair value
measurements which requires additional disclosures about transfers into and
out of Levels 1 and 2, and separate disclosures about purchases, sales,
issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements.  The
guidance also clarifies existing fair value disclosures about the level of
disaggregation and about inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair
value.  The guidance is effective for the first reporting period, to
include interim periods, beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the
portion of the guidance relating to Level 3 activity, which is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within
those fiscal years.  The Company does not expect the adoption of the
guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements. 

Segment Information  - The
Company s home improvement retail stores represent a single operating segment
based on the way the Company manages its business.  Operating
decisions are made at the Company level in order to maintain a consistent retail
store presentation.  The Company s home improvement retail stores sell
similar products and services, use similar processes to sell those products and
services, and sell their products and services to similar classes of
customers.  The amounts of long-lived assets and net sales outside the
U.S. were not significant for any of the periods presented. 

Reclassifications  - Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
classifications. The long-term portion of the self-insurance liabilities,
primarily for workers  compensation, automobile, property, and general and
product liability claims, of $462 million at January 30, 2009, previously
classified as current on the consolidated balance sheets, has been reclassified
to other liabilities (non-current).  The current portion of these
self-insurance liabilities, previously reported as a single line item on the
consolidated balance sheets, has been combined with other current
liabilities.  The non-current portion of deferred income taxes related to
these self-insurance liabilities has also been reclassified from current to
non-current deferred income taxes in the consolidated balance
sheets.  These changes were not material and had no impact on the
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders  equity or cash flows for any
of the periods presented. 

            Note 2: Fair Value Measurements and
Financial Instruments -   

Fair
value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
the measurement date.  The authoritative guidance for fair value
measurements establishes a three-level hierarchy, which encourages an entity to
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable
inputs when measuring fair value.  The three levels of the hierarchy
are defined as follows: 

Level
      1  -  inputs to the
      valuation techniques that are quoted prices in active markets for
      identical assets or liabilities 

Level
      2  -  inputs to the
      valuation techniques that are other than quoted prices but are observable
      for the assets or liabilities, either directly or
    indirectly 

Level
      3  -  inputs to the
      valuation techniques that are unobservable for the assets or
      liabilities 

Assets
and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
Basis 

The
following tables present the Company s financial assets measured at fair value
on a recurring basis as of January 29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, classified by
fair value hierarchy: 

When
available, quoted prices are used to determine fair value.  When
quoted prices in active markets are available, investments are classified within
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company s Level 1 investments
primarily consist of investments in money market and mutual funds. When
quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair values are determined
using pricing models and the inputs to those pricing models are based on
observable market inputs.  The inputs to the pricing models are
typically benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer
spreads and benchmark securities, among others. The Company s Level 2
investments primarily consist of investments in municipal bonds. 

Assets
and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring
Basis 

Effective
January 31, 2009, the Company adopted authoritative guidance issued by the FASB
for non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis. 

During
2009, the Company had no significant measurements of assets or liabilities at
fair value on a non-recurring basis subsequent to their initial recognition,
except as it relates to long-lived asset impairment. 

The
Company reviews the carrying amounts of long-lived assets whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be
recoverable.  An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying
amount of the 

long-lived
asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.  The Company
estimated the fair values of long-lived assets held-for-use, including operating
stores, based on the Company s own judgments about the assumptions that market
participants would use in pricing the asset and on observable market data, when
available.  The Company classified these fair value measurements as
Level 3. 

In the
determination of impairment for operating stores, the Company used an income
approach to determine the fair value of individual operating stores, which
required discounting projected future cash flows.   When
determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an
individual operating store, management made assumptions, incorporating local
market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross
margin and controllable expenses such as store payroll and occupancy
expense.  In order to calculate the present value of those future cash
flows, the Company discounted cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with
the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash
flows.  The selected market participants represent a group of other
retailers with a store footprint similar in size to the Company s. 

In the
determination of impairment for excess properties held-for-use, the fair values
were the estimated selling prices.  The Company determined the
estimated selling prices by obtaining information from brokers in the specific
markets being evaluated.  The information included comparable sales of
similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for these
assets. 

In the
determination of impairment for excess properties held-for-sale, the fair values
were the estimated selling prices, as determined for excess properties
held-for-use, less cost to sell. 

The
following table presents the Company s non-financial assets required to be
measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and any resulting realized
losses included in earnings. Because long-lived assets are not measured at fair
value on a recurring basis, certain carrying amounts and fair value measurements
included in the table may reflect values at earlier measurement dates and may no
longer represent the carrying amounts and fair values at January 29,
2010. 

The Company s financial instruments not
measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, short-term borrowings, accounts payable, accrued
liabilities and long-term debt and are reflected in the financial statements at
cost.  With the exception of long-term debt, cost approximates fair
value for these items due to their short-term nature.  Estimated fair
values for long-term debt have been determined using available market
information, including reported trades, benchmark yields and broker-dealer
quotes. 

Carrying
amounts and the related estimated fair value of the Company s long-term debt,
excluding capital leases and other, are as follows: 

NOTE
3: Investments - 

The
amortized costs, gross unrealized holding  gains  and losses,
and fair values of the Company s investment securities classified as
available-for-sale at January 29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, are as
follows: 

The
proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities were $1.2 billion, $1.0
billion and $1.2 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Gross
realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities were not
significant for any of the periods presented.  The municipal bonds
classified as long-term at January 29, 2010, will mature in one to 38 years,
based on stated maturity dates. 

Effective
February 2, 2008, the Company adopted authoritative guidance issued by the FASB
that provides entities with an option to measure many financial instruments and
certain other items at fair value.  Under this guidance, unrealized
gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are
reported in earnings at each reporting period.  Upon adoption, the
Company elected the fair value option for certain pre-existing investments,
which had a carrying value of $42 million and were accounted for as
available-for-sale securities included in long-term investments in the
consolidated balance sheet at February 2, 2008.   Subsequent to
the election, these investments are reported as trading securities, which are
included in short-term investments, and were $42 million and $31 million at
January 29, 2010 and January 30, 2009, respectively.  For the year
ended January 29, 2010, net unrealized gains for trading securities totaled $7
million.  For the year ended January 30, 2009, net unrealized losses
for trading securities totaled $14 million.  Unrealized gains and
losses on trading securities were included in SG A expense.  Cash
flows from purchases, sales and maturities of trading securities continue to be
included in cash flows from investing activities in the consolidated statements
of cash flows because the nature and purpose for which the securities were
acquired has not changed as a result of the adoption of this
guidance.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a material
impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 

Short-term
and long-term investments include restricted balances pledged as collateral for
letters of credit for the Company s extended warranty program and for a portion
of the Company s casualty insurance and Installed Sales program
liabilities.  Restricted balances included in short-term investments
were $186 million at January 29, 2010 and 

$214
million at January 30, 2009.  Restricted balances included in
long-term investments were $202 million at January 29, 2010 and $143 million at
January 30, 2009. 

Included
in net property are assets under capital lease of $519 million, less accumulated
depreciation of $333 million, at January 29, 2010, and $521 million, less
accumulated depreciation of $318 million, at January 30,
2009. 

Note
5: Short-Term Borrowings and Lines of Credit - 

The
Company has a $1.75 billion senior credit facility that expires in June
2012.  The senior credit facility supports the Company s commercial
paper and revolving credit programs.  The senior credit facility has a
$500 million letter of credit sublimit.  Amounts outstanding under
letters of credit reduce the amount available for borrowing under the senior
credit facility.  Borrowings made under the senior credit facility are
unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time
of funding in accordance with the terms of the senior credit
facility.  The senior credit facility contains certain restrictive
covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the
senior credit facility.  The Company was in compliance with those
covenants at January 29, 2010.  Nineteen banking institutions are
participating in the senior credit facility.  As of January 29, 2010,
there were no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper
program.  As of January 30, 2009, there was $789 million outstanding
under the commercial paper program, and the weighted-average interest rate on
the outstanding commercial paper was 0.84%.  There were no letters of
credit outstanding under the senior credit facility as of January 29, 2010 or
January 30, 2009. 

The
Company had a Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility in the amount of
C$200 million that expired on March 30, 2009.  The outstanding
borrowings at expiration were repaid with net cash provided by operating
activities.  As of January 30, 2009, there was C$199 million, or the
equivalent of $162 million, outstanding under the credit facility, and the
weighted-average interest rate on the short-term borrowings was
2.65%. 

The
Company also has a C$ denominated credit facility in the amount of C$50 million
that provides revolving credit support for the Company s Canadian
operations.  This uncommitted credit facility provides the Company
with the ability to make unsecured borrowings, which are priced at fixed rates
based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms
of the credit facility.  As of January 29, 2010, there were no
borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.  As of January 30,
2009, there was C$44 million, or the equivalent of $36 million, outstanding
under the credit facility, and the weighted-average interest rate on the
short-term borrowings was 1.60%. 

NOTE
6: Long-Term Debt - 

1 
      Real properties with an aggregate book value of $66 million were pledged
      as collateral at January 29, 2010, for secured
  debt. 

2 
       Approximately 46% of
      these medium-term notes may be put at the option of the holder on the 20th
      anniversary of the issue at par value.  The medium-term notes
      were issued in 1997.  None of these notes are currently
      putable.  

Debt
maturities, exclusive of unamortized original issue discounts, capital leases
and other, for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 2010, $518
million; 2011, $1 million; 2012, $551 million; 2013, $1 million; 2014, $1
million; thereafter, $3.7 billion. 

The
Company s debentures, notes, medium-term notes and senior notes contain certain
restrictive covenants.  The Company was in compliance with all
covenants of these agreements at January 29, 2010. 

Senior
Notes 

In
September 2007, the Company issued $1.3 billion of unsecured senior notes,
comprised of three tranches: $550 million of 5.60% senior notes maturing in
September 2012, $250 million of 6.10% senior notes maturing in September 2017
and $500 million of 6.65% senior notes maturing in September
2037.  The 5.60%, 6.10% and 6.65% senior notes were issued at
discounts of approximately $2.7 million, $1.3 million and $6.3 million,
respectively.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semiannually in
arrears in March and September of each year until maturity, beginning in March
2008.  The discount associated with the issuance is included in
long-term debt and is being amortized over the respective terms of the senior
notes.  The net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion were used for
general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working capital
needs, and for repurchases of shares of the Company s common stock. 

The
senior notes issued in 2007 may be redeemed by the Company at any time, in whole
or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption. The redemption price is equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the
principal amount of the senior notes to be redeemed, or (2) the sum of the
present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest
thereon, discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis at specified
rates. The indenture under which the 2007 senior notes were issued also contains
a provision that allows the holders of the notes to require the Company to
repurchase all or any part of their notes if a change-in-control triggering
event occurs.  If elected under the change-in-control provisions, the
repurchase of the notes will occur at a purchase price of 101% of the principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to the date of
purchase.  The indenture governing the senior notes 

does not
limit the aggregate principal amount of debt securities that the Company may
issue, nor is the Company required to maintain financial ratios or specified
levels of net worth or liquidity.  However, the indenture contains
various restrictive covenants, none of which is expected to impact the Company s
liquidity or capital resources. 

Upon the
issuance of the senior notes previously described, the Company evaluated the
optionality features embedded in the notes and concluded that these features do
not require bifurcation from the host contracts and separate accounting as
derivative instruments. 

Convertible
Notes 

On June
30, 2008, the Company redeemed for cash approximately $19 million principal
amount, $14 million carrying amount, of its convertible notes issued in February
2001, which represented all remaining notes outstanding of such issue, at a
price equal to the sum of the issuance price plus accrued original issue
discount of such notes as of the redemption date ($730.71 per note).  On
June 25, 2008, the Company completed a single open-market repurchase of
approximately $187 million principal amount, $164 million carrying amount, of
its senior convertible notes issued in October 2001 at a price of $875.73 per
note.  The Company subsequently redeemed for cash on June 30, 2008,
approximately $392 million principal amount, $343 million carrying amount, of
its senior convertible notes issued in October 2001, which represented all
remaining notes outstanding of such issue, at a price equal to the sum of the
issuance price plus accrued original issue discount of such notes as of the
redemption date ($875.73 per note).  

NOTE
7: Shareholders' Equity - 

The
Company has 5.0 million ($5 par value) authorized shares of preferred stock,
none of which have been issued. The Board of Directors may issue the preferred
stock (without action by shareholders) in one or more series, having such voting
rights, dividend and liquidation preferences, and such conversion and other
rights as may be designated by the Board of Directors at the time of
issuance. 

Authorized
shares of common stock were 5.6 billion ($.50 par value) at January 29, 2010 and
January 30, 2009. 

The
Company has a share repurchase program that is implemented through purchases
made from time to time either in the open market or through private
transactions.  Shares purchased under the share repurchase program are
retired and returned to authorized and unissued status.  The Company
repurchased 76.4 million shares at a total cost of $2.3 billion (of which $1.9
billion was recorded as a reduction in retained earnings, after capital in
excess of par value was depleted) during 2007.  No common shares were
repurchased under the share repurchase program during 2008. The Company
repurchased 21.9 million shares at a total cost of $0.5 billion (of which $3
million was recorded as a reduction in retained earnings, after capital in
excess of par value was depleted) during 2009.  Authorization
available for share repurchases under the program expired as of January 29,
2010.  Authorization for up to $5 billion of share repurchases with no
expiration was approved by the Company s Board of Directors on January 29,
2010. 

NOTE
8: Accounting for Share-Based Payment - 

Overview of Share-Based
Payment Plans  

The
Company has (a) four equity incentive plans, referred to as the  2006,   2001, 
 1997  and  1994  Incentive Plans, (b) one share-based plan to non-employee
directors, referred to as the Amended and Restated Directors  Stock Option and
Deferred Stock Unit Plan (Directors  Plan) and (c) an employee stock purchase
plan (ESPP) that allows employees to purchase Company shares through payroll
deductions.  These plans contain a nondiscretionary antidilution
provision that is designed to equalize the value of an award as a result of an
equity restructuring.  Share-based awards in the form of incentive and
non-qualified stock options, performance accelerated restricted stock (PARS),
performance-based restricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
and deferred stock units, which represent nonvested stock, may be granted to key
employees from the 2006 plan.  No new awards may be granted from the
2001, 1997, 1994, and the Directors  Plans.   

Share-based
awards were authorized for grant to key employees and non-employee directors for
up to 169.0 million shares of common stock.  In May 2009, the 2006
plan was amended to remove limits applicable to specific types of

awards
made under the plan and to permit grants to non-employee
directors.   Up to 45.0 million shares
were authorized under the ESPP.  

At
January 29, 2010, there were 29.5 million shares remaining available for grant
under the 2006 Plan and 14.5  million  shares
available under the ESPP.   

The
Company recognized share-based payment expense in SG A expense on the
consolidated statements of earnings totaling $102 million, $95 million and $99
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The total income tax
benefit recognized was $27 million, $31 million and $32 million in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. 

Total
unrecognized share-based payment expense for all share-based payment plans was
$105 million at January 29, 2010, of which $64 million will be recognized in
2010, $36 million in 2011 and $5 million thereafter.  This results in
these amounts being recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7
years. 

For all
share-based payment awards, the expense recognized has been adjusted for
estimated forfeitures where the requisite service is not expected to be
provided. Estimated forfeiture rates are developed based on the Company s
analysis of historical forfeiture data for homogeneous employee
groups. 

General
terms and methods of valuation for the Company s share-based awards are as
follows :  

Stock
Options  

Stock
options generally have terms of seven years, with normally one-third of each
grant vesting each year for three years, and are assigned an exercise price
equal to the closing market price of a share of the Company s common stock on
the date of grant.  These options are expensed on a straight-line
basis over the grant vesting period, which is considered to be the requisite
service period. 

The fair
value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  When determining expected
volatility, the Company considers the historical performance of the Company s
stock, as well as implied volatility.  The risk-free interest rate is
based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant, based on
the options  expected term.  The expected term of the options is based
on the Company s evaluation of option holders  exercise patterns and represents
the period of time that options are expected to remain
unexercised.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the timing
and amount of forfeitures.  The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model for options granted in the three years ended January 29,
2010, January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008 are as follows: 

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options granted was $4.58,
$5.25 and $8.18 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The total
intrinsic value of options exercised, representing the difference between the
exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise, was approximately
$8 million, $17 million and $42 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

Transactions
related to stock options issued under the 2006, 2001, 1997, 1994 and Directors 
plans for the year ended January 29, 2010 are summarized as
follows: 

1    Options
for which the exercise price exceeded the closing market price of a share of the
Company s common stock  

               at
January 29, 2010 are excluded from the calculation of aggregate intrinsic
value. 

            2   Includes
outstanding vested options as well as outstanding, nonvested options after a
forfeiture rate is applied.  

Performance Accelerated
Restricted Stock Awards  

PARS are
valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common stock on the date
of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end of a five-year
service period from the date of grant, unless performance acceleration goals are
achieved, in which case, awards vest 50% at the end of three years or 100% at
the end of four years.  The performance acceleration goals are based
on targeted Company average return on beginning noncash assets, as defined in
the PARS agreement.  PARS are expensed on a straight-line basis over
the shorter of the explicit service period related to the service condition or
the implicit service period related to the performance conditions, based on the
probability of meeting the conditions.  The Company uses historical
data to estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  No PARS were
granted in 2009, 2008 or 2007.  No PARS vested in 2009 or 2007. The
total fair value of PARS vested was approximately $6 million in
2008.  At January 29, 2010, there were 1.1 million nonvested PARS with
a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $32.91 outstanding, that were issued
under the 2006 and 2001 plans. 

Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Awards  

Performance-based
restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the
Company s common stock on the date of grant. In general, 25% to 100% of the
awards vest at the end of a three-year service period from the date of grant
based upon the achievement of a threshold and target performance goal specified
in the performance-based restricted stock agreement.  The performance
goal is based on targeted Company average return on noncash assets, as defined
in the performance-based restricted stock agreement.  These awards are
expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, based on
the probability of achieving the performance goal. If the performance goal is
not met, no compensation cost is recognized and any recognized compensation cost
is reversed. The Company uses historical data to estimate the timing and amount
of forfeitures.  No performance-based restricted stock awards were
granted in 2009.  The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share
of performance-based restricted stock awards granted was $23.97 and $32.18 in
2008 and 2007, respectively.  During 2008, the Company amended all
2007 performance-based restricted stock agreements, modifying the performance
goal to a prorated scale.  No performance-based restricted stock
awards vested in 2009, 2008 or 2007.  At January 29, 2010, there were
1.5 million performance-based restricted stock awards with a weighted average
grant-date fair value of $27.30 outstanding, that were issued under the 2006
plan.  

Restricted Stock
Awards  

Restricted
stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end
of a three- to five-year period from the date of grant and are expensed on a
straight-line basis over that period, which is considered to be the requisite
service period.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the
timing and amount of forfeitures.  The weighted-average grant-date
fair value per share of restricted stock awards granted was $16.03, $23.75 and
$31.23 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The total fair value of restricted
stock awards vested was approximately $12 million, $18 million and $17 million
in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Transactions
related to restricted stock awards issued under the 2006 and 2001 plans for the
year ended January 29, 2010 are summarized as follows: 

Deferred Stock
Units  

Deferred
stock units are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  For key employees, these awards generally
vested at the end of a three- to five-year period from the date of grant and
were expensed on a straight-line basis over that period, which was considered to
be the requisite service period.  For non-employee directors, these
awards vest immediately and are expensed on the grant date. Each non-employee
Director was awarded a number of deferred stock units determined by dividing the
annual award amount by the fair market value of a share of the Company s common
stock on the award date and rounding up to the next 100 units.  The
annual award amount used to determine the number of deferred stock units granted
to each director was $115,000 in 2009, 2008 and 2007.  During 2009,
61,000 deferred stock units were granted under the 2006 plan and immediately
vested for non-employee directors.  The weighted-average grant-date
fair value per share of deferred stock units granted was $19.01, $24.00 and
$32.13 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The total fair value of deferred
stock units vested was approximately $1 million, $10 million and $1 million in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  There were 0.7 million deferred
stock units outstanding under the Directors  and 2006 plans at January 29,
2010.  There were no unvested deferred stock units at January 29,
2010. 

Restricted Stock
Units  

Restricted
stock units do not have dividends rights and are valued at the market price of a
share of the Company s common stock on the date of grant less the present value
of dividends expected during the requisite service period.  In
general, these awards vest at the end of a three year period from the date of
grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over that period, which is
considered to be the requisite service period.  The Company uses
historical data to estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of restricted stock units
granted was $15.63 and $22.80 in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  No
restricted stock units were granted in 2007.  No restricted stock
units vested in 2009, 2008 or 2007. 

Transactions
related to restricted stock units issued under the 2006 plan for the year ended
January 29, 2010 are summarized as follows: 

ESPP  

The
purchase price of the shares under the ESPP equals 85% of the closing price on
the date of purchase.  The Company s share-based payment expense is
equal to 15% of the closing price on the date of purchase.  The ESPP
is considered a liability award and is measured at fair value at each reporting
date, and the share-based payment expense is recognized over the six-month
offering period.  The Company issued 4,328,305 shares of common stock
pursuant to this plan during the year ended January 29, 2010. 

NOTE
9: Employee Retirement Plans - 

The
Company maintains a defined contribution retirement plan for its eligible
employees (the 401(k) Plan).    Employees are eligible to
participate in the 401(k) Plan 180 days after their original date of
service.  Effective August 2008, eligible employees are automatically
enrolled in the 401(k) Plan at a 1% contribution, unless the employee elects
otherwise.  The Company makes contributions to the 401(k) Plan each
payroll period, based upon a matching formula applied to employee contributions
(company match).  Depending on the amount that a Plan participant
elects to defer, the company match is a maximum of 4.25%.  Plan
participants are eligible to receive the company match after completing 180 days
of service.  The company match is invested identically to employee
contributions and vests immediately in the participant accounts. 

The
Company maintains a Benefit Restoration Plan to supplement benefits provided
under the 401(k) Plan to 401(k) Plan participants whose benefits are restricted
as a result of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.  This Plan provides for employee salary deferrals and employer
contributions in the form of a company match. 

The
Company maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation program called the
Lowe s Cash Deferral Plan. This Plan is designed to permit certain employees to
defer receipt of portions of their compensation, thereby delaying taxation on
the deferral amount and on subsequent earnings until the balance is
distributed.  This plan does not provide for employer
contributions. 

The
Company recognized expense associated with employee retirement plans of $154
million, $112 million and $91 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. 

NOTE
10: Income Taxes - 

The
following is a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the federal statutory
tax rate: 

The
Company operates as a branch in various foreign jurisdictions and cumulatively
has incurred net operating losses of $209 million and $130 million as of January
29, 2010, and January 30, 2009, respectively.  The net operating
losses are subject to expiration in 2017 through 2029.  Deferred tax
assets have been established for these net operating losses in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.  Given the uncertainty regarding the
realization of the foreign net deferred tax assets, the Company recorded
cumulative valuation allowances of $65 million and $42 million as of January 29,
2010, and January 30, 2009, respectively. 

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows: 

The
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact
the effective tax rate were $7 million and $40 million as of January 29, 2010,
and January 30, 2009, respectively. 

During
2009, the Company recognized $9 million of interest income and a $9 million
reduction in penalties related to uncertain tax positions.  As of
January 29, 2010, the Company had $14 million of accrued interest and $1 million
of accrued penalties.  During 2008, the Company recognized $10 million
of interest expense and a $3 million reduction in penalties related to uncertain
tax positions.  As of January 30, 2009, the Company had $30 million of
accrued interest and $9 million of accrued penalties.  During 2007,
the Company recognized $3 million of interest expense and $5 million of
penalties related to uncertain tax positions. 

The
Company does not expect any changes in unrecognized tax benefits over the next
12 months to have a significant impact on the results of operations, the
financial position or the cash flows of the Company. 

The
Company is subject to examination by various foreign and domestic taxing
authorities. During 2009, the IRS completed its examination of the Company s
2004 and 2005 income tax returns, with the exception of certain issues that are
presently under appeal.   In addition, the IRS began its
examination of the Company s U.S. federal income tax returns for 2006 and
2007.  The Company is subject to examination in major state tax
jurisdictions for years 2002 forward.  The Company believes appropriate
provisions for all outstanding issues have been made for all jurisdictions and
all open years. 

Note 11: Earnings Per Share 
- - 

Effective
January 31, 2009, the Company adopted authoritative guidance issued by the FASB
that states that all outstanding unvested share-based payment awards that
contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends participate in undistributed earnings
with common shareholders and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings
allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class
method.  The retrospective application of the provisions of the
guidance reduced previously reported basic earnings per common share by $0.01
for the years ended January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008. 

Under the
two-class method, net earnings are reduced by the amount of dividends declared
in the period for each class of common stock and participating
security.  The remaining undistributed earnings are then allocated to
common stock and participating securities as if all of the net earnings for the
period had been distributed.  Basic earnings per common share excludes
dilution and is calculated by dividing net earnings allocable to common shares
by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the
period.  Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by dividing
net earnings allocable to common shares by the weighted-average number of common
shares as of the balance sheet date, as adjusted for the potential dilutive
effect of non-participating share-based awards and convertible
notes.  The following table reconciles earnings per common share for
2009, 2008, and 2007: 

Stock
options to purchase 21.4 million, 19.1 million, and 7.8 million shares of common
stock for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were excluded from the computation
of diluted earnings per common share because their effect would have been
anti-dilutive. 

NOTE
12: Leases - 

The
Company leases store facilities and land for certain store and non-store
facilities under agreements with original terms generally of 20
years.  The leases generally contain provisions for four to six
renewal options of five years each.  Some lease agreements also
provide for contingent rentals based on sales performance in excess of specified
minimums. Contingent rentals were not significant for any of the periods
presented.  The Company subleases certain properties that are not used
in its operations.  Sublease income was not significant for any of the
periods presented.  Certain equipment is also leased by the Company
under agreements ranging from three to five years. These agreements typically
contain renewal options providing for a renegotiation of the lease, at the
Company's option, based on the fair market value at that time. 

The future minimum rental payments required under operating leases
and capitalized lease obligations having initial or remaining non-cancelable
lease terms in excess of one year are summarized as follows: 

Rental
expenses under operating leases for real estate and equipment were $410 million,
$399 million and $369 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and were
recognized in SG A expense. 

NOTE
13: Commitments and Contingencies - 

The
Company is a defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal
course of business, none of which, individually or collectively, are believed to
have a risk of having a material impact on the Company s financial
statements.  In evaluating liabilities associated with its various
legal proceedings, the Company has accrued for probable liabilities associated
with these matters. The amounts accrued were not material to the Company s
consolidated financial statements in any of the years presented. 

As of
January 29, 2010, the Company had non-cancelable commitments of $673 million
related to certain marketing and information technology programs, purchases of
merchandise inventory and construction of buildings.  Payments under
these commitments are scheduled to be made as follows: 2010, $418 million; 2011,
$128 million; 2012, $65 million; 2013, $58 million; 2014, $2 million;
thereafter, $2 million. 

The
Company had standby and documentary letters of credit issued under banking
arrangements which totaled $327 million as of January 29, 2010.  The
majority of the Company s letters of credits are issued for the purchase of
import merchandise inventories, real estate and construction contracts, and
insurance programs. Payments under these commitments are scheduled to be made as
follows: 2010, $324 million; 2011, $2 million; 2012, $1
million.  Commitment fees ranging from 0.12% to 1.00% per annum are
paid on the letters of credit amounts outstanding. 

In
addition, the Company had commitments under surety bonds which totaled $286
million as of January 29, 2010.  The majority of the Company s surety
bonds are issued by insurance companies to secure payment of workers 
compensation liability claims in states where the Company is
self-insured.  Commitments of $276 million are scheduled to expire in
2010 and commitments of $10 million are scheduled to expire in
2011.  Premiums ranging from $3.10 to $5.50 per $1,000 of bond
coverage per annum are paid on the surety bonds amounts
outstanding. 

During
2009, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Australian
retailer Woolworths Limited, to develop a chain of home improvement stores in
Australia.  Over the next four years, the Company will contribute $400
million to the joint venture, of which it is a one-third owner. The
contributions are expected to be relatively consistent over the four year
period. 

NOTE
14: Related Parties - 

A
brother-in-law of the Company s Executive Vice President of Business Development
is a senior officer of a vendor that provides millwork and other building
products to the Company.  The Company purchased products from this
vendor in the amount of $86 million, $92 million and $101 million for 2009,
2008, and 2007, respectively.  Amounts payable to this vendor were
insignificant at January 29, 2010 and January 30, 2009. 

NOTE
15: Other Information - 

Net
interest expense is comprised of the following: 

As of March 26, 2010 there  were 31,041 registered 
holders of Lowe's common stock. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

exhibit21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

LOWE S
      COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

NAME
      AND DOING BUSINESS AS: 

STATE
      OF INCORPORATION 

Lowe's
      Home Centers, Inc. 

North
      Carolina 

Lowe's
      HIW, Inc. 

Washington 

All
      other subsidiaries were omitted pursuant to Item 601 (21)(ii) of
      Regulation S-K under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
      amended. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23 - CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

exhibit23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of our
reports dated March 30, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule of Lowe's Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
"Company") and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in and incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2010. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      March 30,
2010 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 exhibit311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit311.htm 

Exhibit
31.1  

      CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify that: 

(1)  I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
29, 2010 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2)  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3)  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4)  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5)  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

March
      30, 2010 

/s/
      Robert A. Niblock 

Date 

Robert
      A. Niblock 

                Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 exhibit312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit312.htm 

Exhibit
31.2  

      CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify that: 

(1)  I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
29, 2010 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2)  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3)  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4)  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5)  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

March
      30, 2010 

/s/
      Robert F. Hull, Jr. 

Date 

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr., 

                Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 exhibit321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit321.htm 

Exhibit
32.1 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

      as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert A.
Niblock  

Name:
Robert A. Niblock 

Title:
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:
March 30, 2010 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 exhibit322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit322.htm 

Exhibit
32.2 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

      as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert F. Hull,
Jr  .  

Name:
Robert F. Hull, Jr. 

Title:
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Date:
March 30, 2010 

</EX-32.2>

