<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080129_10-K_edgar_data_895421_0001193125-08-013719_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4255312</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1016890</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>241824</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2480114</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>207</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-013719.hdr.sgml : 20080129
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080128205531
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-013719
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		37
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080129
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080128

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		08555799

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-761-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980326

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 U6ySbECVxq2oaGlBhpLhRxPrikUDZoC/DveRlDfx7Af816yAi1E5OkW/9MWG9R/J
 HfW5bjOAOP/KIhiilkupng==

 0001193125-08-013719.txt : 20080129

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

   UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549      FORM 10-K      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934       For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007       Commission File Number 1-11758

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)         
 
    Indicate by check mark if Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
YES     NO          Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark
whether Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and  large accelerated filer  in Exchange Act Rule
12b-2. Large accelerated filer     Accelerated filer     Non-accelerated filer          Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES     NO          As of May 31, 2007, the aggregate market value of the common stock of Registrant held by non-affiliates of Registrant
was approximately $88,843,773,992.03. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.      As of
January 11, 2008, there were 1,104,587,663 shares of Registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.       Documents Incorporated By
Reference:  Portions of Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders  meeting to be held on April 8, 2008 are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K       for
the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007          

Table of Contents  

Page   

Part I   

Item 1.   

Business   
      
  1   

Overview    
      
  1   

Available Information    
      
  1   

Business Segments    
      
  2   

Institutional Securities    
      
  2   

Global Wealth Management Group    
      
  5   

Asset Management    
      
  6   

Competition    
      
  7   

Regulation    
      
  8   

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley    
      
  12   
 
    Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   
      
  13   
 
    Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  20   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties   
      
  21   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   
      
  22   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  24   

Part II   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  25   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   
      
  28   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  30   

Introduction    
      
  30   

Results of Operations    
      
  31   

Impact of Credit Market Events     
      
  51   

Other Matters    
      
  56   

Critical Accounting Policies    
      
  60   

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations    
      
  66   

Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      
  67   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  83   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  100   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  100   

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
      
  101   

Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  103   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
      
  104   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  105   
       
   i     

Table of Contents  

ii     

Table of Contents  

Page   

Part III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  186   
 
  Item 11.  

Executive Compensation    
      
  186   
 
  Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  187   
 
  Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  188   
 
  Item 14.  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  188   

Part IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  189   

Signatures    
      
  190   

Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  S-1   

Exhibit Index    
      
  E-1   
       
   iii     

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements             We have included or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or
other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only
Morgan Stanley s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.            The nature of Morgan Stanley s business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and uncertainties involved
in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements and it is possible that our actual results may differ from the anticipated results indicated in these forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without limitation):         

the credit ratings assigned to Morgan Stanley;            

the effect of political and economic conditions and geopolitical events;            

the effect of market conditions, including in the global equity and credit markets and with respect to corporate, commercial and residential lending;

the availability and cost of capital;            

the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices;            

the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;          

the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide;            

our reputation;            

investor sentiment;            

the potential effects of technological changes; and            

other risks and uncertainties detailed under  Competition  and  Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I,
Item 1A, and elsewhere throughout this report.               Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Morgan Stanley undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking
statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further
disclosures Morgan Stanley may make in future filings of its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future press releases or other public statements.   
     
   iv     

Table of Contents  

Part I              
  Item 1.    Business.              
  Overview.             Morgan Stanley is a global financial
services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley
was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches
throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley had 48,256 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan
Stanley,  the  Company,   we,   us  and  our  mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.            Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the fiscal years ended November 30,
2007, November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in Part II, Item 8.             
  Available Information.             Morgan Stanley files
annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other
information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC s internet site,  www.sec.gov .            Morgan Stanley s internet site is  www.morganstanley.com . You can access Morgan
Stanley s Investor Relations webpage at  www.morganstanley.com/about/ir . Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley s equity
securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.            Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley s corporate governance at
 www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance . Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:         

Composite Certificate of Incorporation;            

Bylaws;            

Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee;

Corporate Governance Policies;            

Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;            
   1     

Table of Contents  

Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;          

Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;            

Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;            

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; and            

Integrity Hotline.               Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial
Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock
Exchange, Inc. ( NYSE ) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan
Stanley s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.             
  Business Segments.             Morgan Stanley is a global
financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments
follows.              Institutional Securities   includes capital raising;
financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related
products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.              Global Wealth Management Group   provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning
services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.              Asset Management   provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments,
which includes hedge funds and fund of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party retail distribution channels, intermediaries
and Morgan Stanley s institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.            On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of Discover Financial Services (the  Discover Spin-off ).             
  Institutional Securities.             Morgan Stanley
provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated
( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and
agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.             Investment Banking.               Capital
Raising.      Morgan Stanley manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and
other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts ( ADRs ).  
       
   2     

Table of Contents  

Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and
other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.              Financial Advisory Services.      Morgan Stanley provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and
acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense strategies, joint ventures, privatizations, recapitalizations, spin-offs, corporate restructurings, shareholder relations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts. Morgan Stanley also
provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings
and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.              Corporate Lending.      Morgan Stanley provides to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries (including Morgan Stanley Bank) loans or lending commitments, including bridge
financing. These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and may be
syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan Stanley.* The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.             Sales and Trading Activities.**             Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter ( OTC ) markets
around the world. Morgan Stanley s Institutional Securities business includes Equity and Proprietary Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities and Clients and Services.              Equity and Proprietary Trading.      Morgan Stanley acts as
principal (including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.            Morgan Stanley s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover
equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a principal market in
equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors, including principal-protected securities.            Morgan Stanley has several dedicated trading groups which engage in proprietary trading and investing activities utilizing multiple strategies across various cash and derivative asset classes including, among others,
equity securities, quantitative and program driven strategies, commodities, currencies, interest rates, emerging markets, bonds, loans, corporate credit, as well as mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities.              Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies.      Morgan Stanley
trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and
other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan
products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money market and other short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. government securities and a member of the selling groups             

*  
  Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in  Sales and Trading Activities.      

**  
  The description set forth under  Sales and Trading Activities  reflects organizational changes implemented since December 2007. See also  Risk Management  in
Part II, Item 7A for a description of Morgan Stanley s trading risk management structure, policies and procedures.           
   3     

Table of Contents  

that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous
European, Asian and emerging market countries.            Morgan Stanley trades, makes
markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits,
loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.            Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in foreign currencies. Most of Morgan Stanley s foreign
exchange business relates to major foreign currencies such as Yen, Euro, Sterling, Swiss francs and Canadian dollars. Morgan Stanley trades on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets and takes proprietary positions in such
currencies.            Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements,
Morgan Stanley acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan
products and other securitizable asset classes.            Morgan Stanley advises on
investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley structures debt securities and derivatives with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using
repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.              Commodities.      Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and
futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) and related products
and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and
structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns five electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.            Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating
in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and the Heidmar Group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.              Clients and Services.      Morgan Stanley provides financing
services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. Morgan Stanley also engages in principal
securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers. In addition, Morgan Stanley s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.             Other Activities.               Benchmark Indices and Risk Management
Analytics.      As of November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley s majority-owned subsidiary, MSCI Inc. ( MSCI      ), calculates and distributes over
100,000 international and U.S. equity benchmark indices (including the MSCI World and EAFE      Indices) covering 56 countries, and has a historical database spanning over 35 years that
includes fundamental and valuation data on thousands of equity securities in developed and emerging market countries. MSCI also calculates and distributes over 200 hedge fund indices. MSCI s subsidiary, Barra, Inc., is a leading provider of
risk analytic tools and services to investors to help them  
       
   4     

Table of Contents  

analyze, measure and manage portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. The initial public offering of shares of MSCI began trading on the New York Stock
Exchange on November 15, 2007. After this offering, Morgan Stanley continues to own in excess of 80 percent of MSCI.              Research.      Morgan Stanley s global research department ( Research ) consists of economists, strategists and industry
analysts. Research engages in equity and fixed income research activities and produces reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry
developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S. Research provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments
that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends. Research provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded.
Research reports and data are disseminated to investors through third party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley s sales forces.              Investments.      Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or
principal investing activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are capital commitments provided to public and private
companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley expects to make additional principal investments over time. These principal investment activities are conducted within
the investment banking and sales and trading areas in Institutional Securities.            Morgan Stanley sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to
such investment vehicles. See also  Asset Management.              Operations
and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and
Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry
through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well
as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with
unaffiliated third parties.             
  Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan
Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of approximately 8,400 global representatives in approximately 500 locations globally, including over 450 U.S. locations at fiscal
year end. As of November 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley had $758 billion in client assets. On April 1, 2007, Morgan Stanley merged its primary broker-dealer for Global Wealth Management Group, Morgan Stanley DW Inc., into MS Co. Upon
completion of the merger, MS Co. became Morgan Stanley s principal U.S. broker-dealer.             Clients.             Global Wealth Management
Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. In the U.S., products and services are delivered through three
principal channels. Specialized private wealth management  
       
   5     

Table of Contents  

investment representative teams located in dedicated offices provide sophisticated investment solutions and services for ultra high net worth individuals,
families and foundations. Financial advisors located in branches across the U.S. provide solutions designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs for ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent
investors. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Morgan Stanley offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.             Products and Services.             Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a
comprehensive array of financial solutions, including Morgan Stanley s products and services, and products and services from third party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Morgan Stanley offers brokerage and
investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment
trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Morgan Stanley also offers financial and wealth planning services, including education savings programs, as well as annuity and other insurance products.
In addition, Morgan Stanley offers several cash management services, including cash sweeps, debit cards and checkwriting, as well as lending products, including securities based lending and a mortgage referral program, which provides residential
mortgages and home equity lines of credit originated through Morgan Stanley s affiliated entities. Morgan Stanley s BusinesScape SM  program offers cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium
businesses in the U.S. Morgan Stanley provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses. Morgan Stanley also offers trust and fiduciary
services to individual and corporate clients.            Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment
advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. The Active Assets Account      offers clients brokerage and cash management services in one account. Clients can also choose a fee-based,
separately managed account managed by affiliated or unaffiliated professional asset managers.             Operations and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports the activities of Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group from trade capture through clearance,
settlement and custody, including asset servicing as well as bank deposit and loan processing through Morgan Stanley s affiliated banks. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through memberships in
various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.             
  Asset Management.             Morgan Stanley Investment
Management is one of the largest global asset management organizations of any full-service securities firm and offers individual and institutional clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking
strategies. Morgan Stanley had $597 billion of assets under management or supervision as of November 30, 2007. Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands. Portfolio
managers located in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed
and emerging markets. Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.
        
   6     

Table of Contents  

   Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and merchant banking products for institutional investors and
high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha overlays, including FrontPoint Partners LLC, a leading provider of
absolute return strategies with approximately $8.5 billion in assets under management, and minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners and Avenue Capital Group. Morgan Stanley s Merchant Banking Division, formed in 2007, includes Morgan
Stanley s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment and merchant banking funds and
typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.             Institutional Investors.             Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including pension plans, corporations, private funds, non-profit
organizations, foundations, endowments, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles. Morgan
Stanley Investment Management also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.
            Individual Investors.             Morgan Stanley offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed
accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are available to individual investors through affiliated
and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells Van Kampen funds through numerous retirement plan platforms.
Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed through affiliated broker-dealers.             Operations and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee
the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services, on behalf of
institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third
parties.             
  Competition.             All aspects of Morgan
Stanley s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. Morgan Stanley s
competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan Stanley s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and
retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in
the U.S., globally and through the internet.             Institutional Securities and
Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan Stanley s competitive
position depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product
basis.         
   7     

Table of Contents  

   Morgan Stanley s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on Morgan
Stanley s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients continue to
request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.            Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services
industries have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This convergence could result in Morgan Stanley s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and
geographic diversity. It is possible that competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer
operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in
our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective
resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to remain competitive.            Morgan
Stanley has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure
on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic stock markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its
competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.             Asset
Management.             Competition in the asset management industry is affected by
several factors, including Morgan Stanley s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion
efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete
with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.             
  Regulation.             Most aspects of Morgan
Stanley s business are subject to stringent regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Aspects of Morgan Stanley s
public disclosure, corporate governance principles, internal control environment and the roles of auditors and counsel are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the NYSE.            New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in the
interpretation or enforcement thereof) either in the U.S. or elsewhere could materially adversely affect Morgan Stanley s financial condition or results of operations. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory
regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of its business, Morgan Stanley faces complexity and additional costs in its compliance efforts.             Consolidated Supervision and Revised Capital Standards.             Effective December 1, 2005, Morgan Stanley became a consolidated supervised entity ( CSE ) as defined by the SEC. As such,
Morgan Stanley is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. Morgan Stanley s European regulated entities implemented Basel II capital standards on January 1,
2008. Morgan Stanley continues to work with its regulators on the implementation of the CSE rules and Basel II capital standards.         
   8     

Table of Contents  

    Anti-Money Laundering.          
  Morgan Stanley s Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
(the  USA PATRIOT Act ) imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, broker-dealers and mutual funds to identify and verify
customers that maintain accounts. The USA PATRIOT Act also mandates that certain types of financial institutions monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. An institution subject to the USA
PATRIOT Act also must designate an AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws and
regulations similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML requirements.             Protection of Client Information.             Many aspects of Morgan Stanley s business are subject to increasingly comprehensive
legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain client information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data
Protection Directive in the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures in response
to such requirements.             Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management
Group.               Broker-Dealer
Regulation.      MS Co. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and is a member of self-regulatory organizations, including
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices,
securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers  funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons.
Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist
orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.
           Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve
Board s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also required by the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. and NYSE rules to impose maintenance requirements on the value of securities contained in margin accounts. In many cases, Morgan Stanley s broker-dealer subsidiaries  margin policies are more stringent than these
rules.            Morgan Stanley conducts some of its government securities activities
through Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc., a FINRA member registered as a government securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in certain states. The Department of Treasury has promulgated regulations concerning, among other things, capital
adequacy, custody and use of government securities and transfers and control of government securities subject to repurchase transactions. The rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by FINRA, govern the municipal
securities activities of Morgan Stanley.            As registered U.S. broker-dealers,
certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including MS Co., are subject to the SEC s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various securities exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities either have
imposed or are proposing rules relating to capital requirements  
       
   9     

Table of Contents  

applicable to Morgan Stanley s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules, which specify minimum capital requirements, are generally designed to
measure general financial integrity and liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net assets be kept in relatively liquid form. See also  Consolidated Supervision and Revised Capital Standards  above and Note 16 in
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  in Part II, Item 8. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations  assets.            Compliance with the capital requirements may limit Morgan Stanley s operations requiring
the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own
outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely
affect Morgan Stanley s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in
order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules, either in the form of cash or subordinated loans made in accordance with the requirements of the SEC s net capital rule.              Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities.      The commodities activities in the Institutional
Securities business segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S.
federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid
hydrocarbons trading. The EU has increased its focus on the energy markets, which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.
           Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan Stanley s
commodities activities are also subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been
released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.              Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities.      As a registered futures commission merchant, MS Co. is subject to the net capital
requirements of, and its activities are regulated by, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and various commodity exchanges. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors
and/or commodity pool operators. Morgan Stanley s futures and options-on-futures businesses are also regulated by the National Futures Association (the  NFA ), a registered futures association, of which MS Co. and certain of its
affiliates are members. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange
memberships.            Morgan Stanley Bank, through which Morgan Stanley conducts
certain financing and lending activities, is an industrial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Utah. It has deposits that are eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) in accordance with FDIC
rules and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC. Morgan Stanley Bank is not considered a  bank  under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
(the  BHCA ).            Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly
owned subsidiary, is a federally chartered national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary activities, primarily personal trust services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured and is not considered a  bank  for purposes of the BHCA.         
   10     

Table of Contents  

   Morgan Stanley Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary which conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other
activities, is a federally chartered savings bank whose activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision ( OTS ). As a result of its ownership of Morgan Stanley Trust, Morgan
Stanley is registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan holding company ( SLHC ) and subject to regulation and examination by the OTS as a SLHC. Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including Morgan Stanley Trust, are registered
transfer agents subject to regulation and examination by the SEC. Morgan Stanley Trust has deposits that are eligible for insurance by the FDIC.              Non-U.S. Regulation.      Morgan Stanley s businesses are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments,
securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley maintains an office. As Morgan Stanley continues to expand its business
internationally, including in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, it will become subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the
laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct
their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe regulate the Company s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche Borse
AG and the Bundesanstalt f r Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission regulates its activities in Switzerland;
the Comisi n Nacional del Mercado del Valores (C.N.M.V.) regulates its activities in Spain; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges,
including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited
regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.              Research.      Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have
been implemented in many jurisdictions and are proposed or under consideration in other jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. Federal and state regulators (to which
Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.             Asset Management.             The majority of subsidiaries related to Morgan Stanley s asset management activities and others, including MS Co., are registered as investment advisers with the SEC, and, in certain states, some employees or
representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor
or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to
comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time, the
revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.            Morgan Stanley s
Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates Morgan Stanley s business in Japan; the
Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley s business in Singapore.         
   11     

Table of Contents  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.             The
executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of January 28, 2008 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.             John J. Mack (63).      Chairman of the Board of Directors and
Chief Executive Officer (since June 2005). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First
Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).             Walid Chammah (53).      Co-President (since December 2007). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since July
2007). Head of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2002 to August 2005).             James Gorman (49).      Co-President (since December 2007). Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007) and President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (since February 2006). Head of Corporate Acquisitions Strategy   Research at Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global
Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).               Colm Kelleher (50).      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed
Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006). Head of Fixed Income Sales Europe (December 2000 to May 2004).             Gary G. Lynch (57).      Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive
Vice Chairman (July 2004 to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July 2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis
Polk   Wardwell (September 1989 to October 2001).             Thomas R. Nides
(46).      Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (since September 2005). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chief Administrative
Officer of Credit Suisse First Boston (June 2001 to June 2004).         
   12     

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.    Risk Factors.              Liquidity Risk.             Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk
that Morgan Stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of Morgan Stanley to meet its financial
obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7 below.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively
affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial
markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term
financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities
take significant action against us, or we discover serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such
as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.
             Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend
significantly on our credit ratings.              The cost and availability of
unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are significant to the determination of our credit ratings or otherwise affect our ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include
the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our geographic and product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk profile; our risk management policies; our cash
liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. A deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby
increasing our cost of obtaining unsecured funding.            Our debt ratings also can
have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection
with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade.
             We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.
             We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our
subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In
particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers
altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations.         
   13     

Table of Contents  

     If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate, we may be unable to access sufficient financing.   
           Our liquidity and funding policies have been designed to ensure that we
maintain sufficient liquid financial resources to continue to conduct our business for an extended period in a stressed liquidity environment. If our liquidity and funding policies are not adequate or we do not adhere to the policies, we may be
unable to access sufficient financing to service our financial obligations when they come due, which could have a material adverse franchise or business impact.         
   Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from
option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see  Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.
             Our results of operations may be materially affected by market
fluctuations and by economic and other factors.              The amount, duration
and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. Results of operations
in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the
level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism;
investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results
of operations. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.            The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial
fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and
other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns
from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth
Management Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity,
fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business segment.              We may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions   .      
           The Company recorded $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, including $7.8 billion relating to our U.S. subprime trading positions and $1.6 billion relating to other mortgage-related products, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities, ALT-A and other loans, conduit and
non-performing loans and European non-conforming loans, and an impairment charge related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in our domestic subsidiary banks. We continue to have exposure to these markets and products and as market conditions
continue to evolve the fair value of these mortgage-related instruments could further deteriorate. In addition, recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our  
       
   14     

Table of Contents  

securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future
periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of
these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.            The results for fiscal 2007 included other losses primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of
fiscal 2007. These included losses reflecting mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies. The Company s leveraged finance business originates
and distributes loans and commitments, and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this may take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity reentering the market and additional writedowns of these loans and commitments may
occur. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or the associated acquisition transaction does not occur.            Other areas of our business which to date have not been adversely affected by the illiquidity
in our mortgage and lending businesses could be adversely affected if the current conditions in the credit market spread to other sectors.              Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.           
  Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses
in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in us taking large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular
industry, country or region. Moreover, the trend in all major capital markets is towards larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of these activities, and we expect this trend to continue.              Markets may experience periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity.
             Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid
depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity, such as the asset price deterioration in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage market. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not
be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants
simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Morgan Stanley s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to
predict, however, and Morgan Stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, as illustrated by recent results in our subprime mortgage-related proprietary trading.              We may incur significant losses in the real estate sector.              We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real
estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential
real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate
and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector.         
   15     

Table of Contents  

    Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. For more
information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see  Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.              We incur significant,  single-name  credit risk exposure through the Institutional
Securities business segment. This risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various
credit arrangements. We incur  individual consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities.            The amount, duration and range of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past
several years, and may continue to do so. In recent years, we have significantly expanded our use of swaps and other derivatives and we may continue to do so. Corporate clients are increasingly seeking loans or lending commitments from us in
connection with investment banking and other assignments. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, increased pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to provide swaps and lending commitments to counterparties and borrowers
with lower credit quality, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivatives instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. As a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be
held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.              Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial
markets generally.              The commercial soundness of many financial
institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant
market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as  systemic risk  and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities
firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Morgan Stanley.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm s reputation, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from external events
(e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and
trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and facilities management). As such, Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk in each of its businesses, as well as within the control groups. For more information on how we monitor and
manage operational risk, see  Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              We are subject to operational risk and an operational event could adversely affect our businesses.              Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In
general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal
systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial

16     

Table of Contents  

intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party s systems or
improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.            Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may
be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical,
communications or other services used by Morgan Stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.             Legal Risk.             Legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s
performance obligations will be unenforceable. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see  Legal Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.       
       The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.
             We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various
legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for
substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.            We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings
(both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties,
injunctions or other relief. The number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from
potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business,
financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see  Legal Proceedings  in Part I,
Item 3 herein.              We are subject to extensive regulation in the
jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses.              We are subject to
extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business
activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm to us, or harm our business prospects. New
laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see
 Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 herein.              Our commodities
activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.              In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage,
transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight,  
       
   17     

Table of Contents  

LNG and related products and indices. In addition, we own five electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe; TransMontaigne Inc. and its
subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and the Heidmar Group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result
of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations. For example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain
environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic
substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations.            Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies
and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition,
insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of
operations may be adversely affected by these events.            We also expect the other
laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the
public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. For example, the EU has increased its focus on the energy markets which has
resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations
and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.              Potential conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately deal with
conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.              Our
reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including those relating to our proprietary activities. For
example, conflicts may arise between our position as a financial advisor in a merger transaction and a principal investment we hold in one of the parties to the transaction. In addition, hedge funds and private equity funds are an increasingly
important portion of our client base, and also compete with us in a number of our businesses. We have procedures and controls that are designed to address various conflicts of interest. However, identifying and managing potential conflicts of
interest can be complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, the SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of
potential conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may
occur, which will adversely affect our businesses.             Competitive Environment.
              We face strong competition from other financial services firms,
which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.              The financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, insurance
companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We  
       
   18     

Table of Contents  

compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and
price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This
convergence could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our
competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see  Competition  in Part I, Item 1 herein.              Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our
business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.              Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those
levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our
competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.              Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase
competition.              We have experienced intense price competition in some of
our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to
automated, electronic stock markets will likely continue. It is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.   
         International Risk.               We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international
operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.              We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange
controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are
uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not
only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.            We have expanded, and continue to look at opportunities to expand, in the emerging markets.
Various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in
their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.
           The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns
over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our
ability to manage our businesses around the world.         
   19     

Table of Contents  

    Acquisition Risk.               We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes.              We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. To the
extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations or joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and
management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to
liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved
by the joint venture. There is no assurance that our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully
our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.             Risk Management.               Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.              We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures
and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including
risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater
than the historical measures indicate ( e.g. , recent events in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage market). Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and
verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see  Risk Management Market Risk  in
Part II, Item 7A herein.             
  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.             Morgan Stanley, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no
comments that remain unresolved that Morgan Stanley received not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this report relates that Morgan Stanley believes are material.         
   20     

Table of Contents  

Item 2.    Properties.             Morgan Stanley has offices, operations and processing centers and warehouse facilities located throughout the U.S., and certain subsidiaries maintain offices and other facilities in international locations. Morgan Stanley s properties
that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. Morgan Stanley believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for
which they are currently used and are well maintained. Our principal offices consist of the following properties:         

*  
  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by Morgan Stanley securities branch offices.     

**  
  Morgan Stanley holds the freehold interest in the land and building.           
   21     

Table of Contents  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.             In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, Morgan Stanley has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in
connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of
damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.            Morgan Stanley is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory
agencies regarding Morgan Stanley s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            Morgan Stanley contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending
matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, Morgan Stanley
cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might
be. Subject to the foregoing, Morgan Stanley believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of Morgan
Stanley, although the outcome of such matters could be material to Morgan Stanley s operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of Morgan Stanley s revenues or income for
such period.             Coleman Litigation.             In May 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ( CPH ) filed a complaint against
Morgan Stanley in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit for Palm Beach County, Florida relating to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. and Sunbeam, Inc. ( Sunbeam ). The complaint, as amended, alleged that CPH
was induced to agree to the transaction with Sunbeam based on certain financial misrepresentations, and it asserted claims against Morgan Stanley for aiding and abetting fraud, conspiracy and punitive damages. Shortly before trial, which commenced
in April 2005, the trial court granted, in part, a motion for entry of a default judgment against Morgan Stanley and ordered that portions of CPH s complaint, including those setting forth CPH s primary allegations against Morgan Stanley,
be read to the jury and deemed established for all purposes in the action. In May 2005, the jury returned a verdict in favor of CPH and awarded CPH $604 million in compensatory damages and $850 million in punitive damages. In June 2005, the trial
court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which included prejudgment interest and excluded certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others.            In March 2007, the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the
 Court of Appeal ) issued an opinion reversing the trial court s award for compensatory and punitive damages and remanding the matter to the trial court for entry of judgment for Morgan Stanley. In June 2007, the
Court of Appeal s opinion became final when the Court of Appeal issued an order denying CPH s motions for rehearing, rehearing  en banc  and for certification of certain questions for review by the Florida Supreme Court ( the
Supreme Court ). On December 12, 2007, the Supreme Court denied CPH s request for review of the Court of Appeal s decision, directing judgment in favor of Morgan Stanley.            IPO Fee Litigation.             Starting in late 1998, purported class actions, later captioned  In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation  (the  purchaser
actions ) and  In re Issuer Plaintiff Initial Public Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation  (the  issuer actions ), were initiated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the  SDNY ) against

22     

Table of Contents  

Morgan Stanley and numerous other underwriters. The consolidated proceedings, one on behalf of purchasers and the other on behalf of issuers of certain
shares in initial public offerings ( IPOs ), allege that defendants conspired to fix the underwriters  spread at 7% in IPOs of U.S. companies in the $20 million to $80 million range in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act.
The complaints seek treble damages and injunctive relief. Plaintiffs  claims for damages in the purchaser actions have been dismissed, but the claims for injunctive relief remain and plaintiffs  claims in the issuer actions for damages and
injunctive relief remain. Plaintiffs moved for class certification in both actions, and defendants opposed that motion in May 2005. In October 2005, plaintiffs moved for summary judgment, which defendants opposed. In May 2006, plaintiffs
filed a petition pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(f) for leave to appeal the SDNY s denial of class certification and in September 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the  Second Circuit ) reversed
the SDNY s decision and remanded the case back to the district court for further consideration of class certification issues. On remand, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on October 17, 2007.             IPO Allocation Matters.             Beginning in March 2001, numerous purported class actions, now captioned  In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation , were
filed in the SDNY against certain issuers of IPO securities, certain individual officers of those issuers, Morgan Stanley and other underwriters of those IPOs, purportedly on behalf of purchasers of stock in the IPOs or the aftermarket. These
complaints allege that defendants required customers who wanted allocations of  hot  IPO securities to pay undisclosed and excessive underwriters  compensation in the form of increased brokerage commissions and to buy shares of
securities offered in the IPOs after the IPOs were completed at escalating price levels higher than the IPO price (a practice plaintiffs refer to as  laddering ), and claim violations of the federal securities laws, including Sections 11
and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. Some of the complaints also allege that continuous  buy  recommendations by the defendants  research analysts
improperly increased or sustained the prices at which the securities traded after the IPOs. In February 2003, the underwriter defendants  joint motion to dismiss was denied, except as to certain specified offerings. In December 2006,
the Second Circuit reversed the SDNY s grant of class certification, and ruled that these cases could not be certified for class treatment. In August 2007, plaintiffs filed second consolidated amended class action complaints, which purport to
amend the allegations in light of the Second Circuit s reversal of the SDNY s decision approving the cases to proceed as class actions. Plaintiffs again seek certification of classes.            In October 2007, numerous derivative actions, purportedly brought on behalf of certain
issuers of IPO securities, were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington against Morgan Stanley and other underwriters of those IPOs. The actions seek to recover  short swing  profits allegedly generated in
violation of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.             Late Trading and
Market Timing   .              Starting in July 2003, Morgan Stanley
received subpoenas and requests for information from various regulatory and governmental agencies, including the SEC, the NYSE and various states, in connection with industry-wide investigations of broker-dealers and mutual fund complexes relating
to possible late trading and market timing of mutual funds.   In December 2007, Morgan Stanley settled all claims with the SEC concerning late trading and market timing of mutual funds in the retail system over the period from January 2002 to
August 2003. Under the terms of the settlement, Morgan Stanley will, among other things, be censured and pay a monetary fine.             Subprime-related Matters.             Morgan Stanley is responding to subpoenas and requests for information from certain regulatory and governmental entities concerning the origination, purchase,
securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related issues. Morgan Stanley has also been named as a defendant in various civil litigation matters related to the subprime and non-subprime residential mortgage
business, including  
       
   23     

Table of Contents  

purported class actions related to Morgan Stanley s role as an underwriter of certain preferred stock offerings for New Century Financial Corp. and
Countrywide Financial Corp. and certain offerings of mortgage pass through certificates for a subsidiary of Countrywide Financial Corp., and other related matters.            A shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the SDNY during November 2007 asserting claims related in large part to losses caused by
certain subprime-related trading positions and related matters, but no complaint has been served. In December 2007, several purported class action complaints were filed in SDNY asserting claims on behalf of participants in Morgan Stanley s
401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against Morgan Stanley and other parties, including certain present and former directors and officers, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The complaints relate in large part to
subprime-related losses, and allege, among other things, that Morgan Stanley stock was not a prudent investment and that risks associated with Morgan Stanley stock and Morgan Stanley s financial condition were not adequately disclosed.
           The following matters were terminated during the quarter ended
November 30, 2007:             Global Wealth Management Group Employment Matters.
              Wage and Hour Matters.       Complaints
raising allegations of unpaid overtime and unlawful wage deductions were filed against Morgan Stanley in New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Texas, Florida, Illinois, California and Ohio seeking damages on behalf of certain current and former
employees. In October 2006, Morgan Stanley reached agreement to resolve these claims on behalf of the individual claimants as well as other potential class members nationwide. In November 2006, for purposes of executing the settlement, a
consolidated amended complaint captioned  Steinberg, et al. v. Morgan Stanley  was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California ( SDC ). In December 2006, the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation
issued an order centralizing the various matters pending across the country in the SDC.              Gender Matters   .      In June 2006, Morgan Stanley was named in two purported class actions alleging gender discrimination under state and federal law. On October 24, 2007, the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia granted final approval to the settlement reached in  Joanne Augst-Johnson v. Morgan Stanley . The approved settlement resolved all of the class-wide and individual plaintiffs  claims and included, among other
things, a payment to the settlement fund and certain programmatic relief. All similar class wide claims raised in the second purported gender class action captioned  Daisy Jaffe et al. v. Morgan Stanley  were subsumed by the
 Augst-Johnson  settlement.             
  Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.             There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.         
   24     

Table of Contents  

Part II          

Item 5.       
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.               Morgan Stanley s common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol  MS.  At
January 23, 2008, Morgan Stanley had approximately 94,469 holders of record; however, Morgan Stanley believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.            The table below sets forth, for each of the last eight fiscal quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of Morgan Stanley s
common stock as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets and the amount of any cash dividends declared per share of Morgan Stanley s common stock.         

*  
  On June 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley completed the Discover Spin-off. Prior to the Discover Spin-off, the Low Sale Price and the High Sale Price for the Third Quarter were $82.73
and $90.95, respectively.           
   25     

Table of Contents  

   The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of Morgan Stanley of its common
stock during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.             Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (dollars in millions, except per share amounts)         

(A)  
  On December 19, 2006, Morgan Stanley announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of Morgan Stanley s outstanding stock under a new
share repurchase program (the  Share Repurchase Program ). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation
and benefit plan requirements. The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date.     

(B)  
  Includes: (1) shares delivered or attested to in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee stock options (granted under
employee stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under employee stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted
shares; and (3) shares withheld (under the terms of grants under employee stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units. Morgan
Stanley s employee stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares delivered or attested, or withheld, shall be valued using the fair market value of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs, using a
valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley.     

(C)  
  Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit
plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices Morgan Stanley deems appropriate.              * * *         
   26     

Table of Contents  

    Stock performance graph.      The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder
return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of our common stock, the S P 500 Stock Index ( S P 500 ) and the S P 500 Diversified Financials Index ( S5DIVF ) for our last five fiscal years. The graph assumes a $100
investment at the closing price on November 30, 2002 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. Historical prices are adjusted to reflect the Discover Spin-off completed on June 30, 2007.
This graph does not forecast future performance of our common stock.           

27     

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data.                MORGAN STANLEY              SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)          
       
   28     

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings per basic common share.     

(2)  
  These amounts exclude the current portion of long-term borrowings and include Capital Units and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts.           
   29     

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.                
  Introduction.             Morgan Stanley (the
 Company ) is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its
subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each
of the segments follows.             Institutional Securities 
includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed
income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.       
      Global Wealth Management Group  provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives;
financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and
services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and fund of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and
third-party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and the Company s institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.       
     The Company s results of operations for the 12 months ended November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ), November 30, 2006
( fiscal 2006 ) and November 30, 2005 ( fiscal 2005 ) are discussed below.             Discontinued Operations.             On
June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the  Discover Spin-off ) of Discover Financial Services ( DFS ) to its shareholders. DFS  results are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented
through the date of the Discover Spin-off. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. ( Quilter ), Global Wealth Management Group s former mass affluent business in the U.K., are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented
through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of the Company s aircraft leasing business, which was sold on March 24, 2006, are also reported as discontinued operations through its date of sale. See Note 22 to the consolidated
financial statements.         
   30     

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations.              Executive Summary.
              Financial Information.           
       
   31     

Table of Contents  

32     

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Amounts represent income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net.

(2)  
  Earnings applicable to common shareholders are used to calculate earnings per share information. Fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 include a preferred stock dividend of $68 million and
$19 million, respectively.     

(3)  
  Reflects the regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:     

Institutional Securities: investment banking client location, equity capital markets client location, debt capital markets revenue recording location, sales and
trading trading desk location. Global Wealth Management Group: global representative location. Asset Management: client location, except for the merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.     

(5)  
  The computation of average common equity for each business segment is based upon an economic capital model that estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the
businesses and their risk-generating activities through the business cycle while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor minimum requirements. The economic capital model will evolve over time in response to changes in the
business and regulatory environment and to improvements in modeling techniques in order to reflect the capital required to support business activities. The effective tax rates used in the computation of segment return on average common equity were
determined on a separate entity basis.     

(6)  
  Amounts reported for Alternatives reflect the Company s invested equity in those funds and include a range of alternative investment products such as real estate funds, hedge
funds, private equity funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.     

(7)  
  Amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.     

(8)  
  Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company s Asset Management, Global Wealth Management Group and Institutional Securities business
segments.     

(9)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     

(11)  
  Percentages represent income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net, as a percentage of
net revenues.     

(12)  
  Annualized net revenue per global representative amounts equal Global Wealth Management Group s net revenues divided by the quarterly average global representative headcount
for the periods presented.     

(13)  
  The decline in fee-based assets as a percent of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission)
brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating a Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based brokerage
accounts, or at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a new nondiscretionary account launched in August 2007.     

(14)  
  Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.     

(15)  
  Bank deposits are held at certain of the Company s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) insured depository institutions for the benefit of retail
clients through their accounts.     

(16)  
  Amounts include Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     
       
   33     

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2007 Performance.         
       Company Results   .     The Company recorded net income of $3,209 million in fiscal 2007, a 57% decrease from $7,472
million in the prior year. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) declined 6% to $28,026 million in fiscal 2007. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns resulting from
an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the continued deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related instruments. Included in the $9.4 billion were writedowns of $7.8 billion related to U.S.
subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ). These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company s proprietary trading group. The remaining
writedowns of $1.6 billion related to other mortgage-related instruments, which included $1.2 billion relating to commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ), ALT-A (a residential mortgage loan categorization that falls between prime
and subprime) and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans, European non-conforming loans and an impairment charge of $437 million related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks. The results
for fiscal 2007 also included losses of approximately $700 million that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies (see  Impact of
Credit Market Events  herein).            Non-interest expenses increased 19% to
$24,585 million from the prior year primarily due to higher compensation costs. Diluted earnings per share were $2.98 compared with $7.07 a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense increased 18%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based
compensation accruals due to higher net revenues in certain of the Company s businesses. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.37 compared with $5.99 last year. The return on average common equity in fiscal 2007 was 8.9%
compared with 23.5% in the prior year. The return on average common equity from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 was 7.8% compared with 23.8% last year.            Results for fiscal 2007 also included a gain of $168 million ($109 million after-tax) in discontinued operations related to the sale of Quilter on February 28, 2007.
Results for fiscal 2006 included a loss of $125 million ($75 million after-tax) related to the sale of the Company s aircraft leasing business (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, pre-tax results for fiscal 2007
included the $360 million reversal of the Coleman litigation reserve (see  Other Matters Coleman Litigation  herein). Results for fiscal 2006 included non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $260 million for
stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).            The Company s effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 24.5% in fiscal 2007 compared with 30.1% in fiscal 2006. The decrease primarily reflected
lower earnings that increased the effect of permanent differences. Fiscal 2006 s income tax provision included an income tax benefit of $242 million resulting from the resolution of a federal tax audit. Excluding the benefits from the federal
tax audit, the Company s effective income tax rate from continuing operations in fiscal 2006 would have been 32.8%.            At fiscal year-end, the Company had 48,256 employees worldwide compared with 43,124 (excluding DFS employees) at the prior year-end.            Subsequent to the 2007 fiscal year-end, in December 2007, the Company sold equity units (the
 Equity Units ) to a wholly owned subsidiary of the China Investment Corporation Ltd. ( CIC ) for approximately $5,579 million (see  Liquidity and Capital Resources China Investment Corporation Investment  herein).
             Institutional Securities.      Institutional
Securities recorded income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees and income taxes of $817 million, an 89% decrease from a year ago. Net revenues declined 24% to $16,149 million as record results in equity sales and
trading, advisory and underwriting were more than offset by lower results in fixed income sales and trading. Non-interest expenses increased 15% to $15,332 million, reflecting higher compensation costs and non-compensation expenses. Non-compensation
expenses increased 24% as higher costs associated with higher levels of business activity, business investment  
       
   34     

Table of Contents  

and operating expenses associated with TransMontaigne Inc. ( TransMontaigne ), the Heidmar Group of companies ( Heidmar ) and Saxon
Capital, Inc. ( Saxon ) were partially offset by the reversal of the Coleman Litigation reserve.            Investment banking revenues rose 31% from last year to $5,538 million. Underwriting revenues rose 21% from last year to $2,997 million. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were
$2,541 million, an increase of 45% from fiscal 2006.            Fixed income sales
and trading revenues were $650 million, down 93% from a year ago. The decrease was driven by significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. The
decline in credit product revenues primarily reflected the mortgage-related writedowns (see  Impact of Credit Market Events  herein). Commodity revenues decreased primarily due to lower trading results from oil liquids, electricity and
natural gas products. Fiscal 2006 also benefited from revenue recognized on structured transactions. Interest rate and currency product revenues benefited from stronger revenues in interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products.
           Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a record $8,658 million.
Record international results contributed to record revenues from derivative products and prime brokerage and strong results in cash products.            Sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2007 from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair
value.            In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses of approximately $1,242
million reflected loans and loan commitments largely related to event-driven lending to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks (see
 Impact of Credit Market Events Subsidiary Banks  herein).            Principal transaction net investment revenues increased 35% to $1,459 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 s results primarily related to realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company s investments and
higher revenues from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company s real estate funds. The increase also reflected higher revenues primarily related to the appreciation of investments
related to certain employee deferred compensation plans.              Global Wealth
Management Group.      Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $1,155 million, up 127% from the prior year. Net revenues were $6,625 million, a 20% increase over a
year ago, primarily reflecting higher revenues from increased underwriting activity, higher asset management revenues reflecting growth in fee-based products and higher net interest revenue from growth in the bank deposit program. Total non-interest
expenses were $5,470 million, a 9% increase from a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues. Non-compensation costs decreased 2%,
primarily reflecting lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the business. Total client assets increased to $758 billion, up 12% from the prior fiscal year-end. In addition, client assets in fee-based
accounts increased 3% from a year ago to $201 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to 27% from last year s 29%. The decline in fee-based assets as a percent of total client assets largely reflected the termination on
October 1, 2007 of the Company s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. At fiscal year-end, the number of global representatives was
8,429, an increase of 485 from a year ago.              Asset
Management   .     Asset Management recorded income before income taxes of $1,467 million, a 72% increase from last year. Net revenues of $5,493 million increased 59% from the prior year, reflecting significantly
higher investment revenues, primarily in the merchant banking business, which includes the real estate, private equity and infrastructure businesses. The increase primarily reflected higher revenues associated with the appreciation of investments
related to employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The  
       
   35     

Table of Contents  

increase was also due to higher asset management, distribution and administration fees primarily due to an increase in assets under management, a more
favorable asset mix and higher performance fees due to growth in the alternatives business, including FrontPoint Partners ( FrontPoint ), which was acquired in December 2006. Principal transaction net investment gains for the year were
$1,774 million compared with $669 million a year ago. Non-interest expenses increased 55% from the prior year to $4,026 million. Compensation and benefits expense increased, primarily due to expenses associated with certain deferred compensation
plans, higher levels of business investment and higher incentive-based compensation accruals associated with increased net revenues. Non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to increased business activity, including activity from
FrontPoint. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of $597 billion were up $101 billion, or 20%, from last year, primarily due to market appreciation and positive net customer inflows.             Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2007.             In the U.S., the moderate pace of economic growth that occurred during the first half of
fiscal 2007 slowed during the second half of fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting the significant and broad-based illiquidity in the residential real estate and credit markets. Concerns about the impact of subprime loans caused the subprime-related and
broader credit markets to deteriorate considerably over the course of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007, with increased volatility, significant spread widening and lower levels of liquidity and price transparency for certain products. The
U.S. unemployment rate at the end of fiscal 2007 increased to 4.7% from 4.5% at the end of fiscal 2006. Conditions in the U.S. equity markets were also volatile, and major equity market indices rose during the first half of fiscal 2007 while
declining during the second half of fiscal 2007, primarily as a result of mixed corporate earnings and the developments in the credit markets. The Federal Reserve Board (the  Fed ) left rates unchanged during the first half of the
year. In the third quarter, the Fed lowered the discount rate by 0.50%, and in the fourth quarter, the Fed lowered both the benchmark interest rate and discount rate by an aggregate of 0.75%. The Fed acted in order to provide additional liquidity
and stability to the financial markets and to contain the negative economic impact related to the residential real estate and credit markets. The Fed had not changed the benchmark interest rate since June 2006. In December 2007, the Fed lowered both
the benchmark interest rate and the discount rate by 0.25% and the U.S. unemployment rate increased to 5.0%. In January, the Fed lowered both the benchmark interest rate and the discount rate by 0.75%.            In Europe, economic growth continued to be strong, reflecting momentum in domestic demand and
exports. Corporate business surveys indicated, however, that growth in Europe may be slowing. Major equity market indices in Europe increased during fiscal 2007, primarily due to strong corporate earnings, merger and acquisition activity and
generally favorable economic conditions, which more than offset the difficult conditions in the credit markets in the second half of fiscal 2007. The European Central Bank raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% in fiscal 2007.
The Bank of England raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% in fiscal 2007 but subsequently reduced the benchmark interest rate by 0.25% in December 2007.            In Japan, moderate economic growth continued to be driven by exports and domestic demand. The level of unemployment also remained relatively
low. Japanese equity market indices decreased during fiscal 2007 primarily due to tighter global credit conditions. The Bank of Japan raised the benchmark interest rate from 0.25% to 0.50% during fiscal 2007. Economies elsewhere in Asia expanded,
particularly in China, which benefited from strength in exports, domestic demand for capital projects and continued globalization. In China, equity market indices rose during fiscal 2007. The People s Bank of China raised the benchmark lending
rate by an aggregate of 1.17% in fiscal 2007.             Business Segments.
            The remainder of  Results of Operations  is presented on a
business segment basis before discontinued operations. Substantially all of the Company s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each
business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.         
   36     

Table of Contents  

   As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an
Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense
recognition of commissions paid by Asset Management to Global Wealth Management Group associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to Global Wealth Management Group s global representatives. Income before
income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations was $2 million, $23 million and $86 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. Included in the results of Intersegment Eliminations for fiscal 2007 is a $25 million advisory
fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in consolidation. In addition, the results in Institutional Securities for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company s sale of the aircraft leasing business
that was eliminated in consolidation.         
   37     

Table of Contents  

    INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking   .     Investment banking revenues are derived from the underwriting of securities offerings and fees from advisory services. Investment banking revenues were as follows:         
          Investment banking revenues increased
31% in fiscal 2007 and reached record levels. The increase was due to higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and equity underwriting transactions. In fiscal 2006, investment banking revenues increased 25%, primarily
reflecting higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and fixed income and equity underwriting transactions.            In fiscal 2007, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 45% to a record $2,541 million. Advisory fees in fiscal 2007
reflected a strong volume of transaction activity, particularly during the first half of fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2006, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 26% to $1,753 million, primarily reflecting a
strong volume of transaction activity.            Equity underwriting revenues increased
48% to a record $1,570 million in fiscal 2007. Equity underwriting revenues increased 17% to $1,059 million in fiscal 2006. Both periods reflected higher global industry-wide equity and equity-related activity. Fiscal 2006 reflected a strong volume
of initial public offerings.         
   38     

Table of Contents  

   Fixed income underwriting revenues increased 1% to $1,427 in fiscal 2007 and increased 29% to $1,416 million in fiscal
2006. Fiscal 2007 revenues reflected strong revenues from underwriting investment grade corporate products, as corporate issuers sought longer-term financings due to market turmoil in the fixed income credit markets. The increase in fiscal 2006 was
primarily due to an increase in underwriting revenues from non-investment grade and investment grade products as the level of issuer refinancings rose due to record levels of maturing debt. Acquisition-related financing resulting from a strong
market for merger and acquisition activity contributed to the increase in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006.            At the end of fiscal 2007, the backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity underwriting transactions remained relatively strong despite current market conditions. The backlog of fixed
income underwriting transactions was lower for non-investment grade products while the backlog of fixed income underwriting transactions was higher for investment-grade products, as compared with the end of fiscal 2006. The backlog of merger,
acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions is subject to the risk that transactions may not be completed due to challenging or unforeseen economic and market conditions, adverse developments
regarding one of the parties to the transaction, a failure to obtain required regulatory approval or a decision on the part of the parties involved not to pursue a transaction.              Sales and Trading Revenues   .     Sales and trading revenues are composed of principal transaction
trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues in the aggregate. In addition,
decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or
loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company s positions, and other related expenses.            The components of the Company s sales and trading revenues are described below:
            Principal Transactions Trading.     Principal
transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s positions. The Company also engages in proprietary
trading activities for its own account.             Commissions.     Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity securities and options.             Net Interest.     Interest and dividend revenues and interest
expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity
in the Company s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into
with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or
securities loaned transactions.            Total sales and trading revenues decreased 47%
in fiscal 2007 and increased 37% in fiscal 2006. The decrease in fiscal 2007 reflected lower fixed income revenues and other sales and trading losses, partially offset by higher equity sales and trading revenues. Sales and trading revenues were
adversely affected by the difficult market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007. The credit markets deteriorated considerably over the course of the latter half of the year with increased volatility, significant
spread widening, lower levels of liquidity and reduced price transparency. These factors affected the subprime mortgage markets, including the market for collateralized debt obligations, and other structured credit product markets,
leveraged lending  
       
   39     

Table of Contents  

markets and the effectiveness of hedging strategies. This credit environment adversely impacted the Company s credit sales and trading and
corporate lending activities. In addition, such conditions contributed to increased volatility and systematic risk reduction in the equity markets, which adversely affected the Company s quantitative trading strategies.            Sales and trading revenues included the following:         

(1)  
  Amounts include Principal transactions-trading, Commissions and Net interest revenues. Equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues include certain funding costs that were not
previously allocated to those businesses. Other sales and trading net revenues primarily include net losses from loans and closed pipeline commitments related to investment banking, corporate lending and other corporate activities. All prior-year
amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.              Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a record $8,658 million in fiscal 2007, benefiting from record international revenues. The increase was driven by record revenues from derivative products and prime
brokerage and higher revenues from equity cash and financing products, partially offset by trading losses in quantitative strategies resulting from unfavorable positioning. Revenues from derivative products benefited from strong customer flows.
Prime brokerage generated record revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Higher revenues from financing products were primarily due to higher commission revenues driven by strong market volumes. Equity sales and
trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected pursuant to the
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 159 ) on December 1, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements). Revenues increased by approximately $390 million due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads during the year resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term
borrowings, such as structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.            Equity sales and trading revenues increased 31% to a then record $6,281 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was broad based and included higher revenues from derivatives and equity cash products, financing products, prime brokerage and
principal trading strategies. Derivative revenues increased due to strong customer flows, although volatility in the global equity markets continued to be generally low. Revenues from equity cash products reflected higher market volumes,
particularly in Europe and Asia. Financing product revenues also benefited from increased client activity. Prime brokerage generated record revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Global equity markets generally
trended higher and created favorable opportunities for principal trading strategies. Although commission revenues increased, revenues continued to be affected by intense competition, particularly in the U.S., and a continued shift toward electronic
trading.            Fixed income sales and trading revenues decreased 93% to $650 million
in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 results reflected significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. Credit product revenues decreased $9.4 billion,
primarily reflecting mortgage-related writedowns of $7.8 billion, reflecting the deterioration in value of U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs entered into primarily by the Company s
proprietary trading group. Spread widening, lower liquidity and higher volatility resulted in lower origination, securitization and trading results across most credit product groups and also adversely affected the performance  
       
   40     

Table of Contents  

of the Company s hedging strategies. The Company s residential and commercial mortgage loan activities contributed to the significant decline in
credit product revenues, reflecting the difficult market conditions referred to above, as well as continued concerns in the subprime mortgage loan sector. See  Impact of Credit Market Events  herein, detailing the Company s direct
U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures at November 30, 2007.            Interest
rate and currency product revenues increased 63% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher revenues from interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products. Commodity revenues decreased 33%, primarily due to lower trading results from oil
liquids, electricity and natural gas products and lower revenues recognized on structured transactions. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on financial instruments that are
accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). The decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and
short-term borrowings, such as structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected, which was attributable to the widening of the Company s credit spreads during the year, increased revenues by approximately $450 million (see Note 3
to the consolidated financial statements). Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from gains on interest rate derivatives.            Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 41% to a record $9,291 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by record results from commodities, credit
products, and interest rate and currency products. Commodities revenues increased 112% due to strong results from electricity, natural gas products and oil liquids. Credit product revenues increased 52%, primarily due to significantly improved
corporate credit trading and strength in residential and commercial securitized products. Interest rate and currency products decreased 1%. Both commodity and interest rate and currency products benefited from revenues recognized on structured
transactions as a result of increased observability of market value in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 02-3,  Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and
Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities  ( EITF Issue No. 02-3 ). With the adoption of SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS No. 157 ) on December 1, 2006,
the Company no longer applies the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).            In addition to the equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues include the net revenues from the Company s
corporate lending activities. In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses of approximately $1.2 billion primarily reflected approximately $700 million of mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and commitments largely related to
acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to securities in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks (see  Impact of Credit Market Events Subsidiary Banks  herein). The losses
included markdowns of leveraged loan commitments associated with acquisition financing transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during
third quarter of fiscal 2007. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. In
addition, the Company s leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this could take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity re-entering the
market. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, there has been further widening in credit spreads for non-investment grade loans that, if sustained, will result in additional writedowns for these loans and commitments. The fair value measurement of loan
commitments takes into account certain fee income that is attributable to the contingent commitment contract. For further information about the Company s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk.  In fiscal 2006, revenues from corporate lending activities decreased by approximately $50 million from fiscal 2005, reflecting the impact of mark-to-market valuations on a higher level of new
loans made during the year.              Principal
Transactions-Investments.      The Company s investments generally are held for appreciation and to facilitate other business activities. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such

41     

Table of Contents  

investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of
the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.            Principal transaction net investment revenues aggregating $1,459 million were recognized in
fiscal 2007 as compared with $1,081 million in fiscal 2006 and $593 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily related to realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company s investments, including
Grifols S.A. and Bovespa Holdings S.A., and higher revenues from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company s real estate funds. The increase in fiscal 2007 also reflected higher revenues
primarily due to the appreciation of investments related to certain employee deferred compensation plans. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily related to net gains associated with the Company s investments.              Other.      Other revenues consist primarily of revenues from
providing benchmark indices and risk management analytics associated with MSCI Inc. (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). Other revenues also include revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and the
distribution of refined petroleum products associated with TransMontaigne, the marine transportation and logistics services associated with Heidmar, revenues associated with Saxon, a servicer and originator of residential mortgages (see Note 23 to
the consolidated financial statements) and a commodities-related strategic investment.           Other revenues increased 121% in fiscal 2007 and 33% in fiscal 2006. The increase in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was primarily attributable to revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges
and the distribution of refined petroleum products associated with TransMontaigne and higher sales of benchmark indices and risk management analytic products. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to higher revenues associated with Saxon and
from the sale of a commodities-related strategic investment.             Non-Interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses increased 15% in fiscal 2007. Compensation and benefits expense increased 10%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals for certain
businesses. The increase also reflected higher costs associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Institutional Securities  share ($190 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity
awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%, reflecting increased levels of
business activity and expenses associated with acquired businesses. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 33%, primarily due to higher rent and occupancy costs in Europe, Asia and the U.S. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 30%,
primarily reflecting substantially increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Marketing and business development expense increased 27%, primarily due to a higher level of business activity. Professional services expense increased 6%,
primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs related to increased business activity. Other expenses increased 50%, reflecting costs associated with TransMontaigne, Heidmar and Saxon, partially offset by lower net litigation accruals. Fiscal
2007 results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company s favorable outcome from the Coleman litigation. Fiscal 2006 included legal accruals related to the pending settlement of General American litigation,
which was partially offset by a favorable outcome related to the LVMH litigation.            Non-interest expenses increased 23% in fiscal 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased 36%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs resulting from higher net revenues. Fiscal 2006 also included Institutional
Securities  share ($190 million) of incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees while fiscal 2005 included Institutional Securities  share ($193 million) of the costs associated with senior
management changes (see  Other Matters Senior Management Compensation Charges  herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses remained relatively unchanged. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 6%,
primarily due to a $71 million charge that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real  
       
   42     

Table of Contents  

estate leases (see Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements). Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 32%, primarily reflecting increased
equity and fixed income trading activity. Professional services expense increased 18%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs, reflecting increased levels of business activity. Other expenses decreased 48% due to lower charges for legal
and regulatory matters. Fiscal 2006 reflected a net reduction in legal accruals of approximately $40 million related to the IPO Allocation Matters litigation, the LVMH litigation and the settlement of the General American litigation. Other expenses
in fiscal 2005 included legal accruals of $360 million related to the Coleman litigation and approximately $170 million related to the Parmalat settlement and the IPO Allocation Matters litigation.         
   43     

Table of Contents  

    GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking.      Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and
unit trusts. Revenues also include fees earned from offerings underwritten by the Institutional Securities business segment. Investment banking revenues increased 46% and 34% in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2007
was driven by strong underwriting activity across equity, fixed income and unit trust products. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to higher revenues from equity-related offerings and unit trust products.              Principal Transactions Trading.      Principal
transactions include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer
transactions. Principal transaction trading revenues increased 23% in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher revenues from derivative products, municipal and corporate fixed income securities and foreign exchange products. The increase was also due to
higher revenues primarily associated with the appreciation of investments related to certain employee deferred compensation plans. In fiscal 2006, principal transaction trading revenues increased 4%, primarily reflecting higher revenue from foreign
exchange products, equity linked notes and municipal fixed income securities, partially offset by lower revenues from corporate and government fixed income products and other securities.              Principal Transactions Investments.      Principal transaction net investment revenues were $29 million
in fiscal 2007 compared with $57 million in fiscal 2006 and $2 million in fiscal 2005. The results in fiscal 2007 reflected lower net gains from certain of the Company s investments in exchanges and memberships. The results in fiscal 2006 were
primarily related to realized and unrealized gains on the Company s investments in Bolsas y Mercados Espa oles and the New York Stock Exchange.              Commissions.      Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual
funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues increased  
       
   44     

Table of Contents  

23% in fiscal 2007 and decreased 2% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 reflected higher levels of client activity. The decrease in fiscal 2006
largely reflected lower revenues from equity products, which was related to lower agency activity with customers due, in part, to growth in other product areas, including investment banking and asset management.              Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.      Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management, account services and administration.
The Company also receives shareholder servicing fees and fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or
average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 11% in fiscal 2007 and 6% in fiscal 2006. In both fiscal years, the increase was driven by higher client
asset balances in fee-based accounts. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 3% to $201 billion at November 30, 2007 and represented 27% of total client assets versus 29% at November 30, 2006. The decline in fee-based assets as a percent
of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage.
Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based brokerage accounts, or, at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a new nondiscretionary
account launched in August 2007. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 18% to $195 billion at November 30, 2006 and increased as a percentage of total client assets to 29% of total client assets from 27% at November 30, 2005.            Total client asset balances increased to $758 billion at November 30, 2007 from $676
billion at November 30, 2006 primarily due to higher client inflows and market appreciation. Client asset balances in households greater than $1 million increased to $522 billion at November 30, 2007 from $442 billion at
November 30, 2006 and $371 billion at November 30, 2005.              Net
Interest.      Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and
securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased 46% and 53% in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The increase in both periods was primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program that was
launched in November 2005. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $26.2 billion at November 30, 2007 from $13.3 billion at November 30, 2006.              Other.      Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues increased 25%
in fiscal 2007 and decreased 9% in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2007, the increase primarily reflected higher service fees and higher other miscellaneous revenues. In fiscal 2006, the decrease primarily reflected lower service fees.              Non-Interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses increased
9% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses primarily due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the
business. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues and investments in the business, partially offset by Global Wealth Management Group s share
($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense,
non-interest expenses decreased 2%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 6% primarily due to leasehold improvements and higher rental costs. Information processing and communications expense decreased 8% primarily due to lower computing costs.
Marketing and business development expense increased 39% primarily due to costs associated with the Company s advertising campaign. Other expenses  
       
   45     

Table of Contents  

decreased 20%, primarily resulting from a reduction in costs associated with legal and regulatory matters, which included an insurance reimbursement related
to a litigation matter.            Non-interest expenses increased 12% in fiscal 2006.
Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses related to Global Wealth Management Group s share ($198 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see Note 25 to the consolidated financial
statements). Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs. In addition, fiscal 2006 expenses included Global Wealth Management Group s share ($50 million) of the incremental
compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees, including new hires (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), while fiscal 2005 included Global Wealth Management Group s share ($48 million) of the
costs associated with senior management changes (see  Other Matters Senior Management Compensation Charges  herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses decreased 4%.
Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 6% primarily due to a $29 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 (see Note 26 to the consolidated
financial statements). Professional services expense increased 15%, largely due to higher sub-advisory fees associated with growth in fee-based assets and higher costs for outside legal counsel. Other expenses decreased 20%, primarily resulting from
lower costs associated with legal and regulatory matters. During fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company recorded legal and regulatory expenses of approximately $105 million and $170 million, respectively, related to ongoing regulatory,
employment and branch litigation matters.         
   46     

Table of Contents  

    ASSET MANAGEMENT        
      INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking.      Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the acquisition of investments in real estate funds and the underwriting of unit trust products. Investment banking revenues increased 91%
in fiscal 2007 and 4% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 primarily reflected higher revenues from certain real estate products. The increase in fiscal 2006 primarily reflected higher revenues from real estate products and higher equity unit
trust sales, partially offset by a lower volume of fixed income unit trust sales.              Principal Transactions-Trading.      In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized losses of $129 million related to structured investment vehicles. See  Impact of Credit Market Events Structured
Investment Vehicles  herein for further discussion.              Principal
Transactions-Investments.      Asset Management principal transaction investment revenues consist primarily of gains and losses on the Company s investments in alternative investment products.            Principal transaction net investment gains aggregating $1,774 million were recognized in
fiscal 2007 as compared with $669 million in fiscal 2006. The results in both fiscal years were primarily related to investments associated with the Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio, including employee deferred
compensation plans and co-investment plans.            Real estate and private equity
investments generally are held for appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions.
Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.
             Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.      Asset Management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-  
       
   47     

Table of Contents  

based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset
Management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on
monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These
fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 37% in fiscal 2007 and 5% in fiscal 2006. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher fund management and administration fees resulting from an increase in assets
and a more favorable asset mix. The increase was also due to higher performance fees from the alternatives business, including those associated with FrontPoint, which the Company acquired in December 2006 (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial
statements). The increase in fiscal 2006 was due to higher fund management and administration fees, partially offset by lower distribution fees. The higher management and administration fees in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were associated with
increases in average assets under management of 20% and 6%, respectively.            Asset Management s year-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:         

(1)  
  Americas Intermediary channel primarily represents client flows through defined contribution, insurance and bank trust platforms.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     

(3)  
  The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products, such as real estate funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity
funds.           
   48     

Table of Contents  

   Activity in Asset Management s assets under management or supervision during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were as
follows:         

(1)  
  Americas Intermediary channel primarily represents client flows through defined contribution, insurance and bank trust platforms.     

(2)  
  Amount represents Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.              Net inflows (excluding money markets) in fiscal 2007 were primarily associated with positive
flows from non-U.S. clients. Money market net flows for fiscal 2007 were primarily associated with positive flows into institutional liquidity assets, partially offset by outflows from certain money market funds that were impacted by the growth of
Global Wealth Management Group s bank deposit program.              Other.      Other revenues increased 188% in fiscal 2007 primarily due to revenues associated with Lansdowne Partners ( Lansdowne ), a London-based investment manager, and Avenue Capital Group
( Avenue ), a New York-based investment manager, which the Company acquired minority stakes in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). Other revenues remained flat in fiscal 2006.
             Non-Interest Expenses.      Non-interest
expenses increased 55% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 81% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to
higher net revenues. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Asset Management s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related
to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%.
Occupancy and equipment expenses increased 29% primarily due to higher rental costs associated with business growth. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 10% primarily due to increased fee sharing, increased assets under management and
higher commission expenses associated with the launching of new products. These increases were offset by a decrease in the deferred commission amortization. Information processing and communications expense increased 21% primarily due to higher
licensing fees associated with the acquisition of FrontPoint. Professional services expense increased 47% primarily due to higher sub-advisory fees related to the acquisition of FrontPoint. Other expenses increased 47% primarily due to an insurance
reimbursement received in fiscal 2006 related to certain legal matters and an increase in other miscellaneous expenses.         
   49     

Table of Contents  

   Non-interest expenses increased 19% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses from Asset
Management s share ($43 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements). Compensation and benefits expense increased 37% in fiscal 2006, primarily
reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs as well as the impact of new hires. In addition, fiscal 2006 included Asset Management s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to
retirement-eligible employees (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), while fiscal 2005 included Asset Management s share ($41 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see  Other Matters Senior
Management Compensation Charges  herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses were unchanged. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 14%, primarily reflecting lower
amortization expense associated with certain open-ended funds. The decrease in amortization expense reflected a lower level of deferred costs in recent periods due to a decrease in sales of certain open-ended funds. Marketing and business
development expense increased 11% primarily due to higher advertising and marketing costs.         
   50     

Table of Contents  

Impact of Credit Market Events.              Overview .            The Company recorded $9.4 billion in
mortgage-related writedowns in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 resulting from an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the continued deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related
instruments. Included in the $9.4 billion were writedowns of $7.8 billion related to U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs. These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company s
proprietary trading group (see  U.S. ABS CDO Exposures ). As the credit markets in general, and the mortgage markets in particular, declined dramatically in the fourth quarter, increases in the implied cumulative losses in the subprime
mortgage market, coupled with the illiquid nature of the Company s trading positions, led to a significant deterioration in value in its subprime-related trading positions. A summary of the Company s U.S. subprime trading positions,
writedowns and remaining net exposures is further detailed in the table on page 53 and is discussed in  U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures  herein.            The $9.4 billion of fourth quarter writedowns also included an impairment charge of $437 million related to mortgage-related securities
portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks (see  Subsidiary Banks  herein) and $1.2 billion related to CMBS, ALT-A (a residential mortgage loan categorization that falls between prime and subprime) and other loans, conduit
and non-performing loans and European non-conforming loans. The Company continues to have exposure to these markets and instruments, and, as market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these other mortgage-related instruments could
further deteriorate.            The valuation methodology used for these instruments
incorporated a variety of inputs, including prices observed from the execution of a limited number of trades in the marketplace; ABX and similar indices that track the performance of a series of credit default swaps based on subprime mortgages; and
other market information, including data on remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on the underlying mortgages. For a further discussion of the Company s risk management policies and procedures see  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A.            For further discussion regarding the Company s involvement with other U.S. subprime-related activities, see  Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities  and  Other Exposures to
Subprime Lenders.             The results for fiscal 2007 also included losses of
approximately $700 million primarily recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and loan commitments largely related to acquisition financing to non-investment grade companies. The
losses included markdowns of leveraged loan commitments associated with acquisition financing transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed
during the second half of fiscal 2007. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. In
addition, the Company s leveraged finance business originates and distributes loans and commitments, and intends to distribute its current positions; however, this could take longer than in the past and is dependent on liquidity re-entering the
market. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, there has been further widening in credit spreads for non-investment grade loans that, if sustained, will result in additional writedowns for these loans and commitments. For further information about the
Company s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk.             The Company also recognized losses of $129 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 related to structured investment vehicles (see  Structured Investment
Vehicles  herein).             U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.
            The Company s U.S. subprime mortgage-related trading positions
consist of those related to U.S. ABS CDOs and other mortgage-related exposures arising from investments in subprime loans, from asset-backed securities  
       
   51     

Table of Contents  

that, in whole or in part, are backed by subprime mortgage loans, and from derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities.
           Subprime mortgages are loans secured by real property made to a borrower (or
borrowers) with a diminished or impaired credit rating or with a limited credit history. A borrower s credit history is reflected in his credit report and routinely converted into a numerical credit score often referred to as a Fair Isaac
Corporation (or  FICO ) score. Generally, a loan made to a borrower with a low FICO score or other credit score has historically been considered as subprime. Loans to borrowers with higher FICO scores may be subprime if the loan exhibits
other high-risk factors. Such risk factors may include loans where: (a) the loan has a high loan-to-value ratio or combined loan-to-value ratios; (b) the borrower has reduced or limited income documentation; (c) the borrower has a
high debt-to-income ratio; (d) the occupancy type for the loan is other than the borrower s primary residence. There are many other risk factors, including borrowers who have purchased multiple properties or have taken previous equity
withdrawal (cash out) refinancings within the last 12 to 24 month period, non-arm s length purchase transactions and unsupported or high-risk collateral properties, among others. Subprime mortgage-related securities are those securities that
derive a significant portion of their value from subprime loans.             U.S. ABS
CDO Exposures .            The Company purchases interests in and enters into
derivatives with ABS CDOs. CDOs provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of asset-backed securities ( cash CDOs ) or a reference portfolio of securities ( synthetic CDOs ). The underlying or reference portfolios consist
primarily of residential mortgage-backed securities. The CDOs to which the Company has exposure are primarily structured and underwritten by third parties, although the Company also structures and underwrites CDOs, for which it receives structuring
and/or distribution fees, and does from time to time retain interests in such CDOs.            The Company s primary exposure to ABS CDOs is to synthetic CDOs that hold or are referenced to collateral with ratings of BBB+, BBB or BBB- ( mezzanine CDOs ). The majority of the Company s writedowns in the fourth
quarter related to super senior credit default swaps referencing such mezzanine CDOs that were entered into primarily by the Company s proprietary trading group. Under these credit default swap arrangements, the Company can be required to make
payments in the event that securities in the referenced portfolios default or experience other credit events such as rating agency downgrades. (The characterization of these credit default swaps as  super senior  derives from their
seniority in the capital structure of the synthetic CDO.) The Company also has exposure to ABS CDOs via other types of credit default swaps, direct investments in CDO securities, and retained interests in CDOs that the Company has underwritten. In
determining the fair value of the Company s ABS CDO-related instruments the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime
markets. Despite the fact that actual defaults on swap obligations have not yet been realized, the fair value of such positions has experienced significant declines, as a result of a deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as
market developments. These losses, as well as the Company s net CDO exposures, are quantified in the U.S. subprime-related exposures table below.             Other U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.             The Company also has exposure to the U.S. subprime mortgage market via investments in subprime mortgage loans and ABS that are backed in whole or in part by subprime
mortgage loans and via derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities. With respect to whole loans, the Company purchases pools of mortgage loans from third-party originators and also originates mortgage loans
through its retail, wholesale and conduit channels and typically disposes of such loans by securitizing them. The Company typically retains certain lower-rated securities of such securitizations, often referred to as residual tranche securities. The
Company s other subprime mortgage-related trading exposures are quantified in the table below.            The Company s interests in U.S. subprime-related exposures are carried at fair value with changes recognized in earnings.         
   52     

Table of Contents  

   The following table provides a summary of the Company s direct U.S. subprime trading exposures (excluding
amounts related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks (see  Subsidiary Banks  herein)) as of and for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. The Company utilizes various methods of
evaluating risk in its trading and other portfolios, including monitoring Net Exposure. Net Exposure is defined as potential loss to the Company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of the referenced loan, assuming zero recovery. The
value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market volatility. Positive net exposure amounts indicate potential loss (long position) in a default scenario. Negative net exposure amounts indicate potential gain (short position) in a
default scenario. Net Exposure does not take into consideration the risk of counterparty default. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A for a further description of how
credit risk is monitored. Actual losses could exceed the amount of Net Exposure.         

(1)  
  Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. In
addition, these amounts reflect counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are subprime-related; they do not reflect any counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same
counterparty that are not subprime related. The $6.1 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $15.3 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased
of $9.2 billion.     

(2)  
  In determining the fair value of the Company s ABS super senior CDO-related exposures the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited
number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. Deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments have led to significant declines in the estimates of fair
value. These declines reflected increased implied losses across this portfolio. These implied loss levels are consistent with losses in the range between 13%   20% implied by the ABX indices. These cumulative loss levels, at a severity
rate of 50%, imply defaults in the range of 43%   50% for 2005 and 2006 outstanding mortgages.     

(3)  
  Refers to CDOs where the collateral is comprised entirely of another CDO security.           
   53     

Table of Contents  

    Subsidiary Banks.             The securities portfolios of Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) and Morgan Stanley Trust FSB (collectively, the  subsidiary banks ) include certain subprime-related
securities. The portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.            At November 30, 2007, the securities portfolios totaled $9.9 billion consisting primarily of AAA-rated ABS and residential mortgage-backed securities. Of the total amount, $5.5 billion were subprime mortgage-related securities.   
        The securities in the subsidiary domestic banks  portfolios were previously
classified as securities available for sale in accordance with SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS No. 115 ). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined
that it no longer intends to hold these securities until the fair value of the securities recovers to a level that exceeds their initial cost. Accordingly, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal
transactions-trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on its portfolio of securities available for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified the portfolios to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement
of financial condition effective November 30, 2007.             Special Purpose
Entities and Variable Interest Entities.             The Company s involvement
with special purpose entities ( SPEs ) and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) is discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements and  Critical Accounting Policies Special Purpose Entities  herein. In
relation to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities, the Company s involvement with SPEs/VIEs consists primarily of the following:         

Engaging in securitization activities related to subprime loans and subprime-backed securities;            

Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;            

Transferring whole loans into SPEs/VIEs;            

Holding one or more classes of securities issued by such securitization vehicles (including residual tranche securities) and possibly entering into derivative
agreements with such securitization vehicles;            

Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) subprime-backed securities issued by SPEs/VIEs, whether such vehicles are
sponsored by the Company or not;            

Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs/VIEs (not sponsored by the Company) that hold subprime-related assets;            

Providing warehouse financing to CDOs and collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs             

Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPE/VIEs, whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs/VIEs;            

Servicing assets held by SPEs/VIEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs/VIEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;

Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by subprime loans.
               Other Exposures to Subprime Lenders.             The Company provides warehouse financing to entities collateralized by residential mortgage
loans. Under these lines of credit arrangements, the Company requires those entities to provide collateral in excess of the monies advanced. The Company values the collateral on a regular basis to ensure that the value of the collateral exceeds the
value of the monies advanced in accordance with the collateral agreements. The Company does not carry amounts lent under such arrangements at fair value but instead carries such amounts at amortized cost. In  
       
   54     

Table of Contents  

addition, the Company does not fair value its commitments under such arrangements. The Company evaluates its exposure and any potential impairment under such
arrangements, whether funded or committed, in accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  ( SFAS No. 5 ).            In addition, the Company had entered into derivative and lending arrangements with a third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit that provides warehouse financing to
subprime lenders, where such derivative and lending arrangements are linked to the performance of the conduit s loans to the subprime lenders. At November 30, 2007, exposure related to these arrangements was approximately $300 million.
These arrangements were satisfactorily settled and terminated in December 2007. The Company had no further subprime-related commitments to the third-party-sponsored commercial paper conduit as of November 30, 2007. The Company does not sponsor
any commercial paper conduits.             Structured Investment Vehicles.
            Structured investment vehicles     ( SIVs ) are
unconsolidated entities that issue various capital notes and debt instruments to fund the purchase of assets. While the Company does not sponsor or serve as asset manager to any unconsolidated SIVs, the Company does serve as investment advisor to
certain unconsolidated money market funds ( the Funds ) that have investments in securities issued by SIVs. In 2007, widespread illiquidity in the commercial paper market led to market value declines and rating agency downgrades of many
securities issued by SIVs, some of which were held by the Funds. As a result, the Company purchased approximately $900 million of such securities from the Funds during the year at amortized cost, which resulted in losses to the Company of $129
million. The carrying value of the purchased securities still held by the Company as of November 30, 2007 was $543 million. Such positions are reflected at fair value, and presented in Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt
in the consolidated statement of financial condition. Subsequent to November 30, 2007, the Company purchased approximately $160 million of additional securities from the Funds and recorded losses of approximately $40 million on these
securities. The Company was not obligated to purchase any of these securities and has no obligation to purchase any additional securities from the Funds in the future. The Funds continue to have investment in securities issued by SIVs, with an
aggregate face value of $8.2 billion as of November 30, 2007 ($5.4 billion as of January 18, 2008.) These securities have been issued by SIVs that are predominately bank-sponsored, and meet the requirements and investment criteria to continue
to be held by the Funds.             Monoline Insurers.             Monoline insurers ( Monolines ) provide credit enhancement to capital markets
transactions. The current credit environment severely affected the capacity of such financial guarantors. The Company s exposure to Monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by Monolines and as counterparties to derivative contracts. The
aggregate direct exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2007 was $3.7 billion primarily including ABS bonds of $1.5 billion in the Subsidiary Banks  portfolio (see  Subsidiary Banks ) that are collateralized by first and second lien
subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, $1.3 billion in insurance municipal bond securities and $800 million in net counterparty exposure.         
   55     

Table of Contents  

Other Matters.             The following matters are
discussed in the Company s notes to the consolidated financial statements. For further information on these matters, please see the applicable note:         

Note    
 
     Accounting Developments :   

Limited Partnerships    
      
  2   
 
     Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments    
      
  2   
 
     Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets    
      
  2   
 
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes    
      
  2   
 
     Fair Value Measurements    
      
  2   
 
     Employee Benefit Plans    
      
  2   
 
     Fair Value Option    
      
  2   
 
     Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts    
      
  2   
 
     Investment Company Accounting    
      
  2   
 
     Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards    
      
  2   
 
       Business Combinations    
      
  2   
 
     Noncontrolling Interests    
      
  2   
 
     Tax Matters    
      
  20   
 
     Discontinued Operations    
      
  22   
 
     Business and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions and Sale of Minority Interest    
      
  23   
 
     Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108    
      
  24   
 
     Insurance Settlement    
      
  25   
 
     Lease Adjustment    
      
  26   
           Stock-Based Compensation.
            The Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ) using the modified prospective approach as of December 1, 2004. For further information on SFAS No. 123R, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.            Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end equity awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Effective
December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant.            As a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:         

amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

the full cost of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2005); and            

the full cost of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2006).               Fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:

amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and            

the full cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2007).            
   56     

Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four years, while fiscal 2005 and
fiscal 2006 year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years.             Senior Management Compensation Charges.             Compensation and
benefits expense in fiscal 2005 included charges for certain members of senior management related to severance and new hires, which increased non-interest expenses by approximately $282 million. These compensation charges were allocated to the
Company s business segments as follows: Institutional Securities ($193 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($48 million) and Asset Management ($41 million).             Coleman Litigation.             In May 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ( CPH ) filed a complaint against Morgan Stanley in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit for
Palm Beach County, Florida relating to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. and Sunbeam, Inc. In June 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which included prejudgment interest and
excluded certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others. In June 2005, Morgan Stanley filed a notice of appeal with the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the  Court of Appeal )
and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal.            In March 2007, the Court of Appeal issued an opinion reversing the trial court s award for compensatory and punitive damages and remanding the matter to the trial court for entry of
judgment for Morgan Stanley. In June 2007, the Court of Appeal s opinion became final when the Court of Appeal issued an order denying CPH s motions for rehearing, rehearing  en banc  and for certification of certain questions for
review by the Florida Supreme Court (the  Supreme Court ). In June 2007, the trial court issued an order cancelling the supersedeas bond that Morgan Stanley had posted. In July 2007, CPH filed a petition with the Supreme Court asking that
court to review the Court of Appeal s decision ( Petition for Review ). On December 12, 2007, the Supreme Court issued an order denying CPH s Petition for Review.            The Company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that the Supreme Court s decision to deny the Petition for Review has
effectively ended CPH s civil claim against the Company. Effective November 30, 2007, the Company reversed the $360 million reserve previously established for the Coleman litigation under SFAS No. 5.             Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.               Contributions.      The Company made contributions of $131
million and $84 million (excluding $30 million in fiscal 2006 relating to DFS and Quilter) to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from
operations.            The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to
its funded plans by considering several factors including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts
sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations (for example in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or  ERISA ). At
November 30, 2007, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the Company s U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  U.S. Qualified Plan ). Liabilities for
benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.              Expense.      In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee s pension benefits (including
prior-service cost) over the employee s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.         
   57     

Table of Contents  

   The assumed discount rate, which is intended to reflect the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled,
is used to measure the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and to calculate the service cost and interest cost. For fiscal 2007, the assumed discount rate for all U.S. plans was selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent
actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.S. Qualified Plan liabilities. The pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based Aa
corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. It includes only bonds of reasonable issue size and excludes certain types of bonds, such as callable bonds. As of November 30, 2007, the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan
represented 82% of the total liabilities of its U.S. pension and postretirement plans combined. The assumed discount rate for the defined benefit portion of its U.K. pension plan was selected by the Company using a pension discount yield curve based
on the characteristics of the U.K. defined benefit pension liabilities. As of November 30, 2007, the defined benefit portion of the Company s U.K. pension plan represented 59% of the total liabilities of its non-U.S. pension plans combined. For
all other non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.            The expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the Company s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and
generally was estimated by adjusting the previous year s rate by the difference in the weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the target asset allocations, taking into
consideration estimated expenses and the benefits of diversification and rebalancing the portfolio. This rate is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and
expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.            As of November 30, 2007,
the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan represented 90% of the total assets of its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans combined. The Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the expected long-term
rate of return on its U.S. Qualified Plan assets would remain at 6.75% for fiscal 2007 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). There was no significant change in the fees paid by the plan or the underlying market outlook since
September 2006. To better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, in May 2007, the U.S. Qualified Plan s target asset allocation policy was changed from 45%/55% equity/fixed income to 30%/70% equity/fixed
income. The effects of this change will be reflected in fiscal 2008, and the impact is not expected to be material to the Company s consolidated results of operations. The preliminary expected long-term rate of return on U.S. Qualified Plan
assets is 6.50% for fiscal 2008.            The Company s expected long-term rate of
return on assets for its U.S. Qualified Plan was based on the following target asset allocation:         

Target Investment Mix   

Expected Annual Return(1)   

Domestic equity:   

Large capitalization   
      
  12  
  %  
     
  8.1  
  %   
 
    Small capitalization   
      
  3  
  %  
     
  8.4  
  %   

International equity   
      
  15  
  %  
     
  8.4  
  %   

Fixed income:   

Long-term government/corporate   
      
  70  
  %  
     
  5.4  
  %   

(1)  
  These returns do not include the impact of diversification on the overall expected portfolio return.              Each year, the Company compares its initial estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets for the U.S. Qualified Plan (and
adjusts, if necessary) with a portfolio return calculator model (the  Portfolio Model ) that produces a range of expected returns for the portfolio. Return assumptions used are forward-looking gross returns that are not developed solely by
an examination of historical returns. The Portfolio Model begins with the current U.S. Treasury yield curve, recognizing that expected returns on bonds are heavily influenced by the current level of yields. Corporate bond spreads and equity risk
premiums, based on current market conditions, are  
       
   58     

Table of Contents  

then added to develop the return expectations for each asset class. The resulting expected portfolio investment is then adjusted downward to reflect an
assumed load for expenses, which include investment and transaction fees that typically are paid from plan assets, added to the cost basis or subtracted from sale proceeds, as well as administrative expenses paid from plan assets.            The Company uses the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to compute the expected
return on assets component of pension expense. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, expected returns are computed based on a market-related value of assets. The market-related value of assets is a smoothed actuarial value of assets equal to a moving average
of market values in which investment income is recognized over a five-year period. The market-related value of assets must be no greater than 120% and no less than 80% of the market value of assets. Investment income equal to the expected return on
the plan s assets as calculated for the prior year s expense is recognized immediately. Any difference between the actual investment income (on a market-value basis) and the expected return is recognized over a five-year period in
accordance with SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions  ( SFAS No. 87 ).            Other assumptions, including mortality rates, long-term salary growth and employee turnover rates, are set by the Company in consultation with its independent actuaries.
These assumptions are tested every year by monitoring gains and losses, performing assumption studies as needed, and monitoring Company objectives and actuarial trends. These assumptions are adjusted whenever necessary.            The Company amortizes (as a component of pension expense) unrecognized net gains and losses
over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. The loss
amortization component for the U.S. and the non-U.S. pension plans was $41 million for fiscal 2007 (28% of pension expense) and $51 million for fiscal 2006 (32% of pension expense).              Impact of SFAS No. 158.      In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ). Among
other items, SFAS No. 158 required recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of the Company s defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending
November 30, 2007. The Company recorded an after-tax charge of $208 million ($347 million pre-tax) to Shareholders  equity upon the adoption of this requirement. SFAS No. 158 also requires the measurement of defined benefit and
postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of the fiscal year. SFAS No. 158 s requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The
Company expects to early adopt a fiscal year-end measurement date for its fiscal year ending November 30, 2008 and currently expects to record an after-tax charge of approximately $15 million to Shareholders  equity upon
adoption.         
   59     

Table of Contents  

Critical Accounting Policies.             The
Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its
accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.             Fair Value.               Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.      A significant number of the Company s financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in
earnings each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include:         

Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;            

Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;            

Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;            

Certain Deposits;            

Other secured financings; and            

Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured debt.            
   Fair Value Measurement Definition and Hierarch  y.     The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157, effective December 1,
2006. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.   
        In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches, including
market, income and/or cost approaches. SFAS No. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be
used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the
Company s assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the
reliability of inputs as follows:         

Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation
adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of
judgment.               Assets and liabilities utilizing
Level 1 inputs include exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are actively traded, most U.S. Government securities and certain other sovereign government obligations.         

Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, directly or indirectly.
              Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 2
inputs include: exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are not actively traded; most OTC derivatives; restricted stock; corporate and municipal bonds; certain corporate loans and loan commitments; certain high-yield debt;
certain residential and commercial mortgage loans; certain mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ), asset-backed securities ( ABS ), and CDO securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; structured notes;
physical commodities; and mortgage servicing rights.         
   60     

Table of Contents  

Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.               Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 3 inputs include: certain corporate
loans and loan commitments; certain commercial whole loans; certain mortgage loans; certain high-yield debt; distressed debt (i.e., securities of issuers encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy or insolvency); certain MBS, ABS and
CDO securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; investments in real estate funds; private equity investments; and complex over-the-counter derivatives (including certain foreign currency options; long-dated commodity
options and swaps; certain mortgage-related credit default swaps; derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs; and basket credit default swaps).            The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether
the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics particular to the transaction. To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the
determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value
may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that
is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.            Fair value is a
market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant who holds the asset or owes the liability rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company s own
assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market
dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. See Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements for further information about the Company s financial assets and liabilities that are accounted for at fair value.             Valuation Techniques .    Many cash and OTC contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the
highest price that the Company and others are willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that the Company and others are willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the
Company does not require that fair value always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. The Company s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the Company s best
estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.            Fair value for many cash and OTC contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including
maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. In accordance with SFAS No.
157, the impact of the Company s own credit spreads are also considered when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including OTC derivative contracts. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors,
including bid-ask spreads, credit quality and market liquidity. These adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available.       
        OTC Derivative Contracts  .      OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to
interest rates, foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.            Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black-Scholes
option-  
       
   61     

Table of Contents  

pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do
not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used
by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy.            Other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex
products, will require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes certain credit default swaps where direct trading
activity or quotes are unobservable. Derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market for similar positions as indicated by secondary
and primary market activity in the cash CDO and synthetic CDO market. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and
prepayment scenarios, deal structures (e.g., non-amortizing reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to
specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment. Mortgage-related credit default swaps are valued based on data from comparable credit instruments in the cash market and trades in comparable swaps as benchmarks, as prices and spreads
for the specific credits subject to valuation tend to be of limited observability. For basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation between reference credits is often a significant input into the pricing model, in addition
to several other more observable inputs such as credit spread, interest and recovery rates. As the correlation input is unobservable for each specific swap, it is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which external data are available. These
instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The Company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield
curves, commodity underlier spread curves, volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to
provide values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input
values. Commodity derivatives are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company followed the provisions of EITF Issue No.
02-3. Under EITF Issue No. 02-3, recognition of day one profit at inception of an OTC derivative contract was prohibited unless the fair value of the contact was based on a valuation technique incorporating observable market data. With the adoption
of SFAS No. 157, the Company is no longer applying the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3.             Other Sovereign Government Obligations .    The fair value of foreign sovereign government obligations is generally based on quoted prices in active markets. When quoted prices are not
available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and
seniority. These bonds are generally categorized in Levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Municipal Bonds .    The fair value of municipal bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations and pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest
rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Corporate Bonds .    The fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where
observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads. The spread data used are for  
       
   62     

Table of Contents  

the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer is used. When observable price
quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates based on collateral values as key inputs. Corporate bonds are generally
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the hierarchy.                       Corporate Loans and Loan Commitments .    The fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently
executed transactions, market price quotations (where observable) and market observable credit default swap levels along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The
fair value of contingent corporate loan commitments is estimated by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of these
commitments also takes into account certain fee income. While certain corporate loans, closed loan commitments and revolving loans are Level 2 instruments, certain other corporate loans and contingent corporate loan commitments are categorized in
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             Mortgage
Loans .    The valuation of mortgage loans depends upon the exit market for the loan. Loans not intended for securitization are valued based on the analysis of the underlying collateral performance, capital structure and
market spreads for comparable positions as prices and/or spreads for specific credits tend to be unobservable. Where comparables do not exist, such loans are valued based on origination price and collateral performance (credit events) since
origination. These loans are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The Company also holds certain loan products and mortgage products with the intent to securitize them. When structuring of the related securitization is substantially complete, such that the value likely to be realized in a current
transaction is consistent with the price that a securitization entity will pay to acquire these products, the Company marks them to the expected securitized value. Factors affecting the value of loan and mortgage products intended to be securitized
include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratio, updated cumulative loan loss data, prepayment rates, yields, investor demand, any
significant market volatility since the last securitization, and credit enhancement. While these valuation factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions
may require significant judgment. These instruments are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             U.S. Agency Securities .    U.S. agency securities include To-be-announced ( TBA ) securities and mortgage pass-through certificates.
TBA securities are liquid and have quoted market prices. Fair value of mortgage pass-through certificates is determined via a simulation model, which considers different rate scenarios and historical activity to calculate a spread to the comparable
TBA security. U.S. agency securities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities and Asset-Backed Securities ( ABS ).     CMBS and ABS may be valued based on external price/spread data. When position-specific external price
data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable bonds. Included in this category are certain interest-only securities, which, in the absence of market prices, are valued as a function of observable whole bond prices and cash
flow values of principal-only bonds using current market assumptions at the measurement date. CMBS and ABS are categorized in Level 3 if external prices are unobservable; otherwise they are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
            Retained Interests in Securitization
Transactions.     The Company engages in securitization activities related to various types of loans and bonds. The Company may retain interests in securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. To
determine fair values, observable inputs are used if available. Observable inputs, however, may not be available for certain retained interests so the Company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its
best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks  
       
   63     

Table of Contents  

involved. When there are no significant unobservable inputs, retained interests are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. When unobservable
inputs are significant to the fair value measurement, albeit generally supportable by historical and actual benchmark data, retained interests are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             Investments in Private Equity and Real Estate.     The
Company s investments in private equity and real estate take the form of direct private equity investments and investment in private equity and real estate funds. The transaction price is used as the best estimate of fair value at inception.
When evidence supports a change to the carrying value from the transaction price, adjustments are made to reflect expected exit values. Ongoing reviews by Company management are based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating
valuations that consider the evaluation of financing and sale transactions with third parties, expected cash flows and market-based information, including comparable company transactions, performance multiples and changes in market outlook, among
other factors. These nonpublic investments are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently, and, therefore, the fair value is unobservable.             Physical Commodities .    The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined
products, metals and agricultural products. Fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
            Deposits .    The fair value of certificates of
deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. These deposits are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Structured Notes .    The Company issues structured notes that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models described in this section for the derivative and debt features of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs, including
prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates. The impact of the Company s own credit spreads also is included based on the Company s observed secondary bond market spreads. Most
structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Reclasses from Level 2 to Level 3.     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company reclassified approximately $7.0 billion of funded assets and $279 million of net derivative contracts from Level 2 to
Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became unobservable. These reclasses were primarily related to the continued market and liquidity deterioration in the mortgage markets. The most material transfers to Level 3
were in commercial whole loans, residuals from residential securitizations, interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds as well as commercial and residential credit default swaps.             Fair Value Control Processes .    The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its
financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are
not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model s
theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control, Market Risk and Credit Risk
Departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data
are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model.            Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed.
Through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value
information provides additional support of the Company s recorded fair value  
       
   64     

Table of Contents  

for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative
pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products.             Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.             In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a
defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions
include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.
           The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews,
investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            Reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the
experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately
be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.            The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are
complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the
provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled
with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years  examinations, and tax reserves are established as
appropriate.            The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may
arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or
when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves,
if any.            See Notes 2, 15 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements for
additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.             Special
Purpose Entities.             The Company enters into a variety of transactions with
special purpose entities, primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds
and loans, municipal bonds  
       
   65     

Table of Contents  

and other types of financial instruments. In most cases, these SPEs are deemed to be variable interest entities. Unless a VIE is determined to be a
qualifying special purpose entity ( QSPE ), the Company is required under accounting guidance to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date upon which the Company becomes involved with it to determine whether the Company is the primary
beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company must consolidate the VIE. QSPEs are not consolidated.            In accordance with accounting guidance, the Company reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. If the Company s initial assessment results in
a determination that it is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then the Company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to
receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.          

Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.               If the Company s initial assessment results in a determination that it is the primary beneficiary, then the Company reassesses this
determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to
receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.          

A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to unrelated parties.            

The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.               The determination of whether an SPE meets the accounting requirements of a QSPE requires
significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved in
determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires significant judgment (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements).             
  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.             The Company s results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many
factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices;
technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. In addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments
related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. Such factors also may have an impact on the Company s ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global
basis. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company s business, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.       
  
   66     

Table of Contents  

Liquidity and Capital Resources.             The
Company s senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies,
monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company s asset and liability position. These committees, along with the Company s Treasury
Department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company s business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that
its business activities are integrated with the Company s liquidity and capital policies. For a description of the Company s other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A.            The
Company s liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse
franchise or business impact. The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the Company s business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the
business cycle and during periods of financial distress. The principal elements of the Company s liquidity management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan, the Liquidity Reserve and the Cash Capital Policy. Comprehensive financing
guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the Company s target liquidity profile.             The Balance Sheet.             The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. Given the nature of the Company s market-making and
customer financing activities, the size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. A substantial portion of the Company s total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from
its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing and managing its business.            The Company s total assets decreased to $1,045,409 million at November 30, 2007 from $1,121,192 million at November 30, 2006.
The decrease was primarily due to decreases in securities borrowed, securities purchased under agreements to resell and the completion of the Discover Spin-off (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by an increase
in cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations and securities received as collateral.            Within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities, there are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. Securities financing assets and liabilities as of November 30, 2007 were $587
billion and $559 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, customer
receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash.            Securities
financing assets and liabilities include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. These matched book transactions are to accommodate customers, as well as to obtain securities for the settlement and finance of
inventory positions. The customer receivable/payable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in order to satisfy regulatory
requirements. The Company s exposure on these transactions is limited by collateral maintenance policies, which in turn limits the Company s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets was $82 billion that, in
accordance with SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities ( SFAS No. 140 ) represented equal and offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized
non-cash loan transactions.            Balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of
capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company s overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure  
       
   67     

Table of Contents  

of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. The Company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that
excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. These low-risk assets generally are attributable to the Company s matched book and securities lending businesses. Adjusted assets are
calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003)
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( FIN 46R ). Gross assets are also reduced by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements.
The adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders  equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital
needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. These characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have
final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the Company s option by a further 19 years; others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the Company s ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the
subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities. Excluding the $82 billion of assets and liabilities recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 140 would
reduce the leverage ratio from 32.6x to 30.0x.            The following table sets forth
the Company s total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:         
       
   68     

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Average balances for fiscal 2007 were calculated based upon month-end balances from November 2006 through November 2007. Average common equity was adjusted for the Discover
Spin-off.     

(2)  
  The results for the Company and for the Institutional Securities business segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 were adjusted (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial
statements).     

(3)  
  In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the adjusted assets calculation was revised in order to reduce gross assets by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing
organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements. All prior periods have been restated to conform with the current presentation.     

(4)  
  Effective December 1, 2006, mortgage servicing rights have been included in net intangible assets. Amounts as of November 30, 2006 have been reclassified to conform with
the current presentation.     

(5)  
  Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders  equity.     

(6)  
  Adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible shareholders  equity.               Activity in Fiscal 2007.             The Company s total capital consists of shareholders  equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) and junior
subordinated debt issued to capital trusts. At November 30, 2007, total capital was $191,085 million, an increase of $28,951 million from November 30, 2006. The Company redeemed all $66 million of its outstanding Capital Units on
February 28, 2007.            During the 12 months ended November 30, 2007, the
Company issued senior notes with a carrying value aggregating $76.1 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating $35.2 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company has entered into certain transactions to obtain
floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ) trading levels. At November 30, 2007, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company s Senior Indebtedness (as defined in
the Company s senior debt indentures) was approximately $207 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). The weighted average maturity of the Company s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity
dates, was approximately 5.5 years at November 30, 2007. Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through December 31, 2007, the Company s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $10 billion. In addition, in
December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. See  China Investment Corporation Investment  herein.         
   69     

Table of Contents  

    China Investment Corporation Investment.             In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units which include contracts to purchase Company common stock (see  Stock Purchase
Contracts  herein) to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC s ownership in the Company s common stock, including the maximum number of shares of common stock to be received by CIC upon settlement of
the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the Company s total shares outstanding based on the total shares outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC will be a passive financial investor and will have no special rights of ownership
nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds will be treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.         
  Each stock purchase contract mandatorily settles in Company common stock at prices between $48.0700 and $57.6840. The maximum number of shares to be issued upon
settlement of the stock purchase contracts included in the Equity Units is approximately 116,063,000. The stock purchase contracts settle for Company common stock on August 17, 2010, subject to adjustment. Each Equity Unit will pay a fixed
annual payment rate of 9% payable quarterly.            As described below, the Equity
Units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A ( Series A Trust ), Morgan Stanley Capital Trust B ( Series B Trust ) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C ( Series C
Trust ) (each a  Morgan Stanley Trust  and, collectively, the  Trusts ) and stock purchase contracts issued by the Company. The only assets held by the Series A Trust, Series B Trust and Series C Trust are junior
subordinated debentures issued by the Company.              Equity Units.   
           Each Equity Unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of:

(i)  
  an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Series A Trust, Series B Trust or Series C Trust with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and

(ii)  
  a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company.                 Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Trust Preferred Securities  .             In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities
due no later than February 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the
Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to SFAS No. 159. The common and trust preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership
interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A Trust,
Series B Trust and Series C Trust will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%.            The trust common securities, which are held by the Company, represent an interest in the Trusts and are recorded as an equity method investment in the Company s
consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts are VIEs in accordance with FIN 46R and the Company does not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as it is not the primary beneficiary of any of the Trusts.            The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the
holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. If the Company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a Morgan Stanley Trust, such Morgan Stanley Trust will not be able to pay any amounts
payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. In that event, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to  
       
   70     

Table of Contents  

rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities
is paid, the amounts payable with respect to the trust preferred securities upon liquidation of the Morgan Stanley Trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust preferred securities. The trust
preferred securities held by the Equity Unit holders are pledged to the Company to collateralize the obligations of the Equity Unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The Equity Unit holders may substitute certain zero-coupon
treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts.                   Stock Purchase Contracts     .              Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the
Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average prices of the common
stock during a specified 20-day period ending three days immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date ( applicable market value ). If the applicable market value of the Company s common stock is less than the threshold
appreciation price of $57.6840 but greater than $48.0700, the reference price, the settlement rate will be a number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the applicable market value. If the applicable market value
is less than or equal to the reference price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the reference price. If the applicable market value is greater than or equal to the
threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the threshold appreciation price. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Company will receive
proceeds of approximately $5,579 million and issue up to approximately 116,063,000 shares of its common stock. The stock purchase contract may be settled early at the option of the holder at any time prior to the second business day immediately
preceding the beginning of the first remarketing period. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate, subject to adjustment.            The initial quarterly distributions on the Series A, Series B and Series C trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract
adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts of 3%, result in the 9% yield on the Equity Units.            If the Company defers any of the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 9% until paid, to the extent
permitted by law.            The present value of the future contract adjustment payments
due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400 million and was recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in Shareholders  equity in the Company s consolidated statement of
financial condition in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrete over the term of the stock purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to
Interest expense. When the contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance.             Calculation of Impact on Average Diluted Common Shares Outstanding Prior to Settlement of Stock Purchase Contract.             Prior to the issuance of common stock upon settlement of the stock purchase contract, the
impact of the Equity Units will be reflected in the Company s earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock method, as defined by SFAS No. 128,  Earnings Per Share.  Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares
of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share will be calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the  
       
   71     

Table of Contents  

average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be
received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period.            Dilution of net income per share will occur (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares is over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of
common shares for a reporting period is between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and is greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period.            Upon settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract, the amount of common shares issued in
settlement of the contract will be included in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the reporting period.       
      Economic Capital.             The Company s economic capital model estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses and their risk-generating activities through the
business cycle while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor minimum requirements. The economic capital model will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate
improvements in modeling techniques in order to reflect the capital required to support business activities.            Economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. Each business segment is capitalized as if each were an independent operating entity. This
process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk and associated cost of required capital, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns
(such as return on equity and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions.            The Company s methodology is based on a going-concern approach that assigns equity to each business based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, including principal investment
risk. Regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets, is a minimum requirement to ensure the Company s access to funding and credibility in the market. The Company
believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. The difference between the Company s consolidated book equity and aggregate equity
requirements denotes the Company s unallocated capital position, which is not currently reflected in business segment performance metrics.            The Company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. Market risk scenarios capture systematic,
idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. Credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. Business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue
flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. Operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the Company.            Beginning in fiscal 2007, economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 equity (including common shareholders 
equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments and deductions of certain goodwill, intangible assets and net deferred tax assets), subject to regulatory limits.         
   72     

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the Company s allocated average Tier 1 equity ( economic capital ) for fiscal
2007 and average common equity for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:         
          The increase in capital allocated to
Institutional Securities from the prior-year period reflects the increased market and credit risk profile as well as capital required for new acquisitions and investments. The Company expects to continue deploying capital, provided market
opportunities continue to warrant such investments. The decrease in the economic capital allocated to the Global Wealth Management Group was due to the Company s reassessment of the amount of capital required to support the market risks and
credit risks in this business segment. The incremental equity capital allocated to Asset Management primarily represents capital required for acquisitions and investments in asset management products.            The Company s unallocated economic capital was $(2.7) billion at November 30, 2007 due
to the loss recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and increased capital assigned to the Institutional Securities business segment. In December 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with CIC as a long-term financial investor and issued
new capital of approximately $5,579 million through Equity Units. These Equity Units will help to further bolster the Company s capital position and enhance growth opportunities globally while also building on the Company s deep historic
ties and market leadership in China (see  China Investment Corporation Investment  herein).            The Company continues to believe that it is adequately capitalized. The Company generally uses available unallocated capital for organic growth, additional acquisitions, and other capital needs including repurchases
of common stock while maintaining adequate internal capital ratios.            During
fiscal 2007, the Company s shareholders  equity has been affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 158 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements), SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 159 (see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated
financial statements), and the Discover Spin-off (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements).              Equity Capital Management Policies.      The Company s senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of
ensuring that the Company s equity capital base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. Capital is required for, among other things, the Company s inventories, underwritings,
principal investments, bridge loans and other financings, investments in fixed assets and for future uses. Capital for future uses will be included within unallocated capital until required by the business segments. The Company also considers return
on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the Company is operating and its peer group s results. In this regard, the Company actively manages its
consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines  
       
   73     

Table of Contents  

and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to
maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries  equity.            At November 30, 2007, the Company s equity capital (which includes shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $36,145
million, a decrease of $4,103 million from November 30, 2006, primarily due to the Discover Spin-off. The Company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common
stock repurchases and dividends. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased approximately $3.8 billion of its common stock (approximately 52 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $72.65 (see also  Market for
Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5).            In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock. This
share repurchase authorization replaced the Company s previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based
compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.3 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.            The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In December 2007, the Company announced
that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $379.66 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock
(represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.37966).             Liquidity Management Policies.             The primary goal of the Company s liquidity management and financing activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments. Given the
highly liquid nature of the Company s balance sheet, funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of collateralized financing. The Company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the Treasury
Department. The Company maintains a liquidity management framework in order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand a contraction in credit availability. The framework components include the Contingency Funding Plan ( CFP ),
Liquidity Reserve and Cash Capital.              Contingency Funding
Plan   .     The Company maintains a CFP to manage a potential prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and to provide the ability to conduct business in an orderly manner. The CFP is produced on a
parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. The CFP sets forth a course of action to ensure effective management of a liquidity event. Liquidity risk exposures are regularly evaluated and reported to the Firm Risk Committee and
appropriate business segment risk committees.            The Company s CFP model
incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters
of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the
event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured
debt buybacks.         
   74     

Table of Contents  

   The Company s CFP is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and
availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. In addition, the
CFP assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities.              Liquidity Reserve   .     The Company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in
the CFP. This liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. The Company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities
for the pool are chosen accordingly. The U.S. and non-U.S. components, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists of U.S. and European government bonds and other high-quality collateral. The Company believes
that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company s funding requirements and target liquidity
reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.            The table below summarizes the Company s liquidity reserves on a parent, bank subsidiary and non-bank subsidiary level. The liquidity
held on the bank and non-bank subsidiary level is generally not available to the parent.         
            Cash
Capital  .    The Company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. Sources of cash capital include the parent company s equity and the non-current portion of certain
long-term borrowings. Uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of
securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments.            The Company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. The Company s equity
capital of $36,145 million (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts of $4,876 million) and long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $154,940 million comprised the Company s total
capital of $191,085 million as of November 30, 2007, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements.             Committed Credit Facilities.             The maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the Company s funding sources. The Company values committed credit as a secondary
component of its liquidity management framework. The committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the Company covering geographic regions, including North America, Europe and Asia.            The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support
general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar  
       
   75     

Table of Contents  

tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and British pound, all of which exist with the Company as the sole
borrower. Under this combined facility (the  Credit Facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.6 billion under the U.S. dollar tranche, 80 billion Japanese yen under the Japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the
multicurrency tranche. The Credit Facility expires on April 16, 2008 and includes a term-out feature that allows the Company, at its option, to extend borrowings under the Credit Facility for an additional one year beyond
the expiration date. At November 30, 2007, the Company had a $13.8 billion consolidated stockholders  equity surplus as compared with the Credit Facility s covenant requirement.            The Company anticipates that it may utilize the Credit Facility for short-term funding from
time to time. The Company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its Credit Facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the Credit Facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of
credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. At November 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.            The Company also maintains a committed bilateral credit facility to support general liquidity needs. This facility is expected to be drawn from time to time to cover
short-term funding needs.             Capital Covenants.             In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed a replacement capital covenant in
connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the  Capital Securities ). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain
specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital
covenant, see the Company s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.             Funding Management Policies.             The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources include the Company s equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase
agreements; U.S., Canadian, European, Japanese and Australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master
notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the Company s bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of
funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, euro,
British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.            The Company s bank
subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase Federal Funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. Interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits.
Savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. Brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the Company s bank
subsidiaries. Other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit.            The Company s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company s operations that would result from an
interruption in the availability of the Company s funding sources. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company s
liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed  
       
   76     

Table of Contents  

to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. The Company maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all times to withstand any
unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. In addition, the Company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company also maintains committed
credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs.              Secured Financing.      A substantial portion of the Company s total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional
Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings.            The Company s goal is to encourage funding through collateralized borrowings in order to achieve an optimal mix of secured and
unsecured financing. The Institutional Securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial
stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business segment continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity.            In addition, the Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the
collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.              Unsecured Financing.      The Company views long-term debt as
a stable source of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. In general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate
long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest
rate risk (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).            The Company
issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its Cash Capital Policy. In addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the
Company s liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market
conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.            The Company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. This approach gives the Company flexibility to manage the unsecured
debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. Down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. Liquidity
and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the Company s ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company.            During fiscal 2007, the Company s long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through
enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. As a result, for fiscal 2007, a principal amount of $53 billion of unsecured debt was issued (of which $22 billion of equity-linked and
credit-linked notes were not considered to be a component of the Company s cash capital). Financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted
through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. Unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $30 billion.   
     
   77     

Table of Contents  

    Credit Ratings.             The Company s reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. The
cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the Company s short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are significant to the determination of the Company s credit ratings or that otherwise affect its
ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the Company s level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk
profile, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. A deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating
agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the Company, thereby increasing the cost to the Company in obtaining unsecured funding. In addition, the Company s debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly
in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps.            In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business, the
Company may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. At November 30, 2007, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch
downgrade of the Company s senior debt credit rating was approximately $746 million. Of this amount, $677 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded
party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.            As of January 22, 2008, the Company s credit ratings were as follows:   

Commercial       Paper    
      
     Senior       Debt     
 
    Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited   
      
  R-1 (middle)  
      
  AA (low)   
 
    Fitch Ratings(1)   
      
  F1+  
      
  AA-   
 
    Moody s Investors Service(2)   
      
  P-1  
      
  Aa3   
 
    Rating and Investment Information, Inc.(3)   
      
  a-1+  
      
  AA   
 
    Standard   Poor s(4)   
      
  A-1+  
      
  AA-   

(1)  
  On December 19, 2006, Fitch Ratings changed the outlook on the Company s senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative.     

(2)  
  On November 8, 2007, Moody s Investors Service changed the outlook on the Company s senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative.     

(3)  
  On December 20, 2007, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. changed the outlook on the Company s senior debt from Stable to Negative.    

(4)  
  On July 30, 2007, Standard   Poor s upgraded the Company s commercial paper rating from A-1 to A-1+ and upgraded the Company s senior debt rating from
A+ to AA-. On November 8, 2007, Standard   Poor s changed the outlook on the Company s commercial paper and senior debt ratings from Stable to Negative. On December 19, 2007, Standard   Poor s placed the
Company s commercial paper and senior debt ratings on CreditWatch with Negative implications.               Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.             The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities
businesses.              Institutional Securities
Activities   .     The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency
collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained
interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated  
       
   78     

Table of Contents  

statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $5.3 billion at November 30, 2007, the majority of which
were related to residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. For further information about the Company s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 5 to the
consolidated financial statements as well as  Impact of Credit Market Events  herein.            The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the
underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements).              Guarantees.      FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  ( FIN 45 ), requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements
that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a
specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. FIN 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s
failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.            The table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at November 30, 2007:         

(1)  
  Approximately $14 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments and Contractual Obligations  table below in the investment grade and
non-investment grade primary and secondary lending commitments and in the letters of credit issued by subsidiaries that are guaranteed by the Company.              In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated
with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of
the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.            See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse
member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees.         
   79     

Table of Contents  

    Commitments and Contractual Obligations.             The Company s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, other financial guarantees, investment activities, and
corporate lending and financing arrangements as of November 30, 2007 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with letters of credit, other financial guarantees, and lending and financing arrangements may
expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  This amount primarily represents the Company s outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company s
counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral and margin requirements.     

(2)  
  This amount represents commitments associated with the Company s real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.

(3)  
  The Company s investment grade and non-investment grade primary lending commitments are made in connection with corporate lending and other business activities. Credit ratings
for commitments are determined by the Company s Institutional Credit Department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. Obligor credit ratings of BB+ or lower are considered non-investment
grade.     

(4)  
  The Company records these commitments at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statement of financial
condition (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).     

(5)  
  This amount represents commitments associated with the Company s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities.     

(6)  
  This amount represents lending commitments extended by the Company to companies that are secured by real estate assets of the borrower. Loans made under these arrangements typically
are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. This amount also includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $1,246 million, which have maturities of less
than four years.     

(7)  
  These amounts represent the Company s forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans, residential mortgage loan commitments to individuals and residential home equity
lines of credit.     

(8)  
  This amount includes commercial loan commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company s Global
Wealth Management Group business.              At November 30, 2007, the
Company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $107 billion and $26 billion, respectively.               
   80     

Table of Contents  

   In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash
payments. Contractual obligations at November 30, 2007 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company s future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of November 30, 2007 are
summarized below:         

(1)  
  See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(2)  
  See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(3)  
  Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications
maintenance agreements. Purchase obligations at November 30, 2007 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for
goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition.               Regulatory Requirements.             On April 1, 2007, the Company merged Morgan Stanley DW Inc. ( MSDWI ) into Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated ( MS Co ). Upon completion
of the merger, the surviving entity, MS Co., became the Company s principal U.S. broker-dealer. MS Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital
requirements of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS Co. has consistently operated in excess of these requirements. MS Co. s net capital totaled $6,673 million at
November 30, 2007, which exceeded the amount required by $4,950 million. Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services
Authority, and Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSJS ), a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSJS consistently operated in excess of their
respective regulatory capital requirements.            Under regulatory capital
requirements adopted by the FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as
defined, to risk-weighted assets ( Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). At November 30, 2007, the leverage
ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company s FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.            Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.            Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. ( MSDP ) and Cournot Financial Products LLC
( Cournot ), which are triple-A rated derivative products subsidiaries, maintain certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. Both entities are operated such that creditors of the Company should not
expect to have  
       
   81     

Table of Contents  

any claims on either the assets of Cournot or the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations of such entity to its own creditors are satisfied in full.
Creditors of Cournot or MSDP, respectively, should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of Cournot or MSDP.            The Company is a consolidated supervised entity ( CSE ) as defined by the SEC. As
such, the Company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. During fiscal 2007, the Company was in compliance with CSE capital requirements.            MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital
in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
November 30, 2007, MS Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.             Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.             The Company s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases
in the Company s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial
instruments, it may adversely affect the Company s financial position and profitability.            A significant portion of the Company s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S.
dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on
the Company s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging
transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.         
   82     

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.              Risk Management.              Risk Management Policy and Control Structure.             Risk is an inherent part of the Company s business and activities. The Company s ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to
its soundness and profitability. The Company s broad-based portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. The Company seeks to identify,
assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the Company s business activities: market, credit, operational, legal, and liquidity and funding risk. Liquidity and
funding risk is discussed in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7. The Company s currency exposure relating to its
net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.            The cornerstone of the Company s risk management philosophy is protection of the Company s franchise, reputation and financial standing. The Company s risk
management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. Given the importance of effective risk management to the Company s reputation, senior
management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters.            Risk management at the Company requires independent Company-level oversight, accountability of the Company s business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets.
The Company s senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the Company and business segment level. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global
financial services business, the Company s risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification.            The nature of the Company s risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs
the Company s risk governance structure. The Company s risk governance structure includes the Firm Risk Committee, the Capital Structure and Strategic Transactions Committee, the Chief Risk Officer, the Internal Audit Department,
independent control groups, and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across business segments.            The Firm Risk Committee, composed of the Company s most senior officers, oversees the Company s risk management structure. The Firm Risk Committee s
responsibilities include oversight of the Company s risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. The Firm Risk Committee is overseen by the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Audit Committee ). The Capital Structure and Strategic Transactions Committee (the  Capital Committee ) reviews strategic transactions for the Company and significant changes to the Company s capital
structure. The Capital Committee s responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the Company s risk profile and strategy.            The Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm Risk Committee, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves certain excessions of
Company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Audit Committee.            The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The
Internal Audit Department examines the Company s operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories.         
   83     

Table of Contents  

   The Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Financial Control, Treasury, and Legal and Compliance Departments
(collectively, the  Company Control Groups ), which are all independent of the Company s business units, assist senior management and the Firm Risk Committee in monitoring and controlling the Company s risk through a number of
control processes. The Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company s risk management and monitoring systems and
processes.            Each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for
ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk
framework established by the Firm Risk Committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures,
and related controls.            Each of the Company s business segments also has
designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively,  Segment Control Groups  and, together with the Company Control Groups, the  Control Groups ) to manage
and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. The Control Groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment s
market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Control Groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures,
exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review.            The following is a discussion of the Company s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding and liquidity risk). The
discussion focuses on the Company s securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal
risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company s market risk exposure generated by the Company s statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of
future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.             Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying
instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation
activities, principally within the Institutional Securities business where the substantial majority of the Company s Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, the Company incurs trading-related market
risk within the Global Wealth Management Group. Asset Management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in funds and investments in private equity vehicles.            Sound market risk management is an integral part of the Company s culture. The various business units and trading desks are responsible
for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The Control Groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. The Market Risk Department is responsible for
ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Market Risk Department monitors the
Company s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the Company s VaR system. A variety of limits is designed to control price and market liquidity

84     

Table of Contents  

risk. Market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and
through routine stress testing and scenario analyses conducted by the Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Market Risk Department
that are circulated to and discussed with senior management.              Subprime
and Related Risks   .                 During 2007, asset-backed
products referencing subprime consumer mortgages experienced a significant increase in expected default rates, resulting in a dramatic reduction in asset prices and market liquidity. Although other markets have also experienced periods of
significant illiquidity in the past, the combined magnitude and velocity of price depreciation, as well as the continuing nature of the event, place it among the most significant market shocks ever realized. While such events may recur in the
future, the timing and magnitude of recurrence are difficult to predict.            Events of this magnitude are outside of the loss estimates forecast by VaR models and are more commonly measured by alternative risk measures such as stress tests and scenario analyses. However, the market moves associated with the subprime
events of 2007 were significantly greater than those included in the Company s stress tests and scenario analyses at that time. The Company has since enhanced its stress test and scenario analyses to better incorporate the levels of price
volatility realized during the second half of fiscal 2007. Stress tests and scenario analyses represent estimates of future significant events. Actual market moves may continue to be more dramatic than the estimates included in the Company s
VaR, stress tests and scenario analyses. Limitations to VaR models are discussed further in  VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations  below.              Sales and Trading and Related Activities.                Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management.      During fiscal 2007, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest
rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities.            The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its
market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve
and credit spreads). The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed
corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).            The Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions (including positions in non-public entities).
Positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more
difficult to hedge than listed equities.            The Company is exposed to foreign
exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments. The
Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base
metals) and related derivatives. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage
issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.         
   85     

Table of Contents  

   The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include
diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options).
Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being
hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such
a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the Company s aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company s senior management.
           Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company and for its
major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and
regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.            The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company s trading portfolios on a
regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing VaR and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company s trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity
to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures.            Net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the Company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset, assuming zero recovery, is one key risk
measure the Company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain
products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Market Risk Department. The Market Risk Department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the Company s revenue
sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events.              Value-at-Risk (VaR)   .     The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market
Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.              VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations   .     The Company estimates VaR using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation
for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. Historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of
daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors  and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. The Company s VaR model uses approximately four years
of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. The Company s 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been
exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.            The Company s VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread risk and linear exposures to
implied volatility risks. Market risks that are incorporated in the VaR model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. The VaR model also captures certain
correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. As a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the
Company s VaR model uses  
       
   86     

Table of Contents  

Monte Carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products (i.e., corporate bonds, loans, and credit derivatives).            The Company s VaR models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of
trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in
market structure and dynamics. As part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model s ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry
sectors. In response to increased levels of market volatility realized during the second half of fiscal 2007, the Company has reviewed the appropriateness of the implementation of its VaR models and has made certain changes to more accurately
capture risks generated by certain fixed income products. These changes include additional historical time series that provide broader product coverage of subprime consumer mortgage products as well as updated mappings of risk exposures to
historical price time series.            Among their benefits, VaR models permit
estimation of a portfolio s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. However,
VaR risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology s limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of
future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a VaR model; VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the
market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for VaR estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual
relative to the historical period used in estimating the VaR; and published VaR results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial
markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management oversight process.
As explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and Company levels.              VaR for Fiscal 2007   .     The table below presents the
Company s Aggregate (Trading and Non-trading), Trading and Non-trading VaR for each of the Company s primary market risk exposures at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, incorporating substantially all financial instruments
generating market risk that are managed by the Company s trading businesses. This measure of VaR incorporates most of the Company s trading-related market risks. However, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is
not included in VaR, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different VaR results from those produced using more precise measures. For
example, risks associated with residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely the relevant microeconomic factors that affect mortgage prices within a VaR context.            Aggregate Trading and Non-trading VaR also incorporates (a) the interest rate risk
generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the Company and (c) corporate loan exposures that are awaiting distribution to the market.
Investments made by the Company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the VaR results reported below. Aggregate Trading and Non-trading VaR also excludes certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets
as well as the credit spread risk generated by the Company s funding liabilities. As of November 30, 2007, the notional amount of funding liabilities related to non-trading assets (including premises, equipment and software, goodwill,
deferred tax assets and intangible assets) was approximately $7.8 billion, with a duration of approximately 10 years. The credit spread risk sensitivity generated by the Company s funding  
       
   87     

Table of Contents  

liabilities (i.e., those funding both trading and non-trading assets) corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $78 million for each +1 basis
point (or 1/100 th  of a percentage point) widening in the Company s credit spread level as of November 30, 2007.            Since the VaR statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company s future
revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the Company s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur
more than five times in 100 trading days. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.            The table below presents 95%/one-day VaR for each of the Company s primary risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at
November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006.         

(1)  
  Diversification benefit equals the difference between Total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for
each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category.         
     The Company s Aggregate VaR at November 30, 2007 was $83 million compared with $89 million at November 30, 2006. The decrease in Aggregate
VaR and Trading VaR at year-end was driven primarily by a decrease in equity exposures toward the end of the fiscal year.            The Company s Trading VaR at November 30, 2007 was $78 million compared with $85 million at November 30, 2006. The decrease in Trading VaR at year-end was
driven primarily by a decrease in equity price VaR, partially mitigated by increases in foreign exchange rate VaR and interest rate and credit spread VaR. The increase in foreign exchange rate VaR was driven by increased exposure to foreign
currencies. The increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR was driven primarily by two factors. First, at November 30, 2007 the Company reclassified the investment portfolio of its bank subsidiaries from securities available for sale to
Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition. (The total notional amount of reclassified assets at November 30, 2007 was $8.1 billion, consisting entirely of ABS and residential mortgage-backed securities).
Second, during fiscal 2007, the U.S. subprime market experienced a significant increase in price volatility. This increase in volatility drove an increase in VaR with respect to the Company s exposure to securities that reference subprime
mortgage pools and related financial instruments, whose change in value is modeled as a function of the underlying securities.            Non-trading VaR at November 30, 2007 increased to $33 million from $15 million at November 30, 2006 primarily due to an increase in interest rate and credit
spread non-trading VaR resulting from an increase in non-trading loan assets.         
   88     

Table of Contents  

   The Company views average Trading VaR over the fiscal year as more representative of trends in the business than VaR at
any single point in time. Table 2 below, which presents the high, low and average 95%/one-day Trading VaR during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, represents substantially all of the Company s trading activities. Certain market risks included in the
year-end Aggregate VaR discussed above are excluded from these measures (e.g., equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the Company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions).
           Average Trading VaR for fiscal 2007 increased to $87 million from $60 million
in fiscal 2006, driven by increases across all four primary market risk categories. Average Total VaR for fiscal 2007 increased to $92 million from $67 million in fiscal 2006, which was also driven by increases across all four primary market risk
categories. The increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR was predominately driven by increased volatility in securitized product and corporate credit markets, which resulted in a higher VaR despite a reduction in risk exposures during the
fiscal year. The increase in equity price VaR was primarily driven by increased equity exposures. The increase in foreign exchange rate VaR was driven by increased exposure to foreign currencies. The increase in commodity price VaR was predominately
driven by increased exposure to electricity and natural gas products.         
            VaR Statistics under Varying
Assumptions.              VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms
because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm s VaR model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the
simulated market conditions. These differences can result in materially different VaR estimates for similar portfolios. As a result, VaR statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather
than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. Table 3 below presents the VaR statistics that would result if the Company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95%
versus 99%) for the VaR statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations:         
          In addition, if the Company were to
report Trading VaR (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the Company s 95% and 99% Average Trading VaR for fiscal 2007 would have been $274 million and $402 million, respectively.         
   89     

Table of Contents  

     Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for Fiscal 2007.              As shown in Table 2 above, the Company s average 95%/one-day Trading VaR for fiscal
2007 was $87 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company s daily 95%/one-day Trading VaR for fiscal 2007. The most frequently occurring value was between $86 million and $89 million, while for approximately 90% of
trading days during the fiscal year, VaR ranged between $71 million and $98 million.           

            One method of evaluating the reasonableness of the
Company s VaR model as a measure of the Company s potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the VaR with actual trading revenue. Assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading losses
should exceed VaR during the fiscal year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the VaR model could be questioned. Accordingly, the Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR
model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. For days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR
model s accuracy relative to realized trading results.            The Company
incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day Trading VaR on 15 days during fiscal 2007. These losses were incurred during a period of exceptionally high volatility across equity, corporate credit and securitized product markets. Since
the Company bases its VaR calculations on four years of equally weighted historical data, clustering of VaR exceptions should occur during periods of exceptionally high market turbulence. An examination of the 15 outliers incurred during the fiscal
year revealed that these losses occurred on days when markets experienced unusually high price volatility.            Over the longer term, trading losses are expected to exceed VaR an average of three times per quarter at the 95% confidence level. The Company bases its VaR calculations on the long-term (or unconditional)
distribution and, therefore, evaluates its risk from a longer term perspective, which avoids understating risk during periods of relatively lower volatility in the market.       
  
   90     

Table of Contents  

   The histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue during fiscal 2007 for the Company s trading
businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). During fiscal 2007, the Company experienced net
trading losses on 34 days. These loss days were driven predominately by increased market volatility realized during the second half of the fiscal year.           

             Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a
borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its financial obligations. The Company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. The Company incurs significant,  single-name  credit risk exposure through the
Institutional Securities business and to a lesser extent through its commercial lending activity in its Global Wealth Management Group. This type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis.
The Company also incurs  individual consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities.            The Company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these
businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. The Institutional Credit Department ( Institutional Credit ) evaluates and monitors credit risk exposure for the Institutional Securities business.
Institutional Credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. Credit
risk exposure in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes Institutional Credit. The Global Wealth Management Group Risk Management Department is responsible for
monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions.         
   91     

Table of Contents  

     Institutional Securities Activities.               Corporate Lending.      In connection with certain of its Institutional Securities business activities, the
Company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. Such loans and commitments can generally be classified as either  event-driven  or  relationship-driven.              Event-driven  loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a
particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. The commitments associated with these  event-driven  activities may not be indicative of the Company s actual funding
requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. In addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the Company s portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. The
borrower s ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. The borrowers of  event-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. The Company risk
manages its exposures in connection with  event-driven  transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging.             Relationship-driven  loans and commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. The commitments associated with
 relationship-driven  activities may not be indicative of the Company s actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. The borrowers of
 relationship-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. The Company may hedge its exposures in connection with  relationship-driven  transactions.              Securitized Products.      The Company also extends loans and
lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of
revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value.              Other.      In addition to the activities performed by
Institutional Credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within Institutional Securities. For example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. Certain risk
management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the Company s prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate
collateral level for each strategy or position. In addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function.              Derivative Contracts.      In the normal course of business,
the Company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. The Company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. These instruments
generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. Many of these products have maturities that do
not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities.            The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The
Company s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale, and is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of
the financial instruments, commodities, or indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.         
   92     

Table of Contents  

           Analyzing Credit
Risk.      Credit risk management takes place at the transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. In order to help protect the Company from losses resulting from these activities, Institutional Credit analyzes all
material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the Company s counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. Institutional Credit assigns
obligor credit ratings to the Company s counterparties and borrowers. These credit ratings are intended to assess a counterparty s probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by
external rating agencies. Credit ratings of  BB+  or below are considered non-investment grade. Additionally, for lending transactions, Institutional Credit evaluates the relative position of the Company s particular obligation in the
borrower s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. The Company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one
borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties. Institutional Credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits.              Risk Mitigation.      The Company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives
transactions in multiple ways. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure
through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. Additionally, the Company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in
the primary and secondary loan market. In connection with its derivatives trading activities, the Company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements may provide the Company with the
ability to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations, request additional collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default.              Credit Exposure-Corporate Lending.      The following table presents information about the Company s
corporate loans and commitments as of November 30, 2007. The  total corporate lending exposure  column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. Funded loans represent loans that have been drawn by the borrower and that were
outstanding as of November 30, 2007. Lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of November 30, 2007 for both  relationship-driven  and  event-driven  transactions. As
discussed above, these loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be
syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company.        
   93     

Table of Contents  

   At November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $13.0 billion
and $6.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $10.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. At November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, the aggregate amount of lending commitments
outstanding was $70.2 billion and $53.5 billion, respectively. In connection with these business activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the Company had hedges with a notional amount of $37.6 billion and $26.5
billion at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively. The table below shows the Company s credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and commitments as of November 30, 2007. Since commitments associated with
these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:             Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans          

(1)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Institutional Credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.     

(2)  
  Total corporate lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans. Amounts exclude approximately $38 billion of notional amount of hedges.

(3)  
  Total corporate lending exposure includes  event-driven  funded loans of $10.8 billion and  event-driven  lending commitments of $24.5 billion. Included in the
$24.5 billion of  event-driven  loan commitments were $12.2 billion of commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed.            
   94     

Table of Contents  

     Credit Exposure-Derivatives.      The table below presents a summary by counterparty
credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of OTC derivatives in a gain position at November 30, 2007. Fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final
column, net of collateral received (principally cash and U.S. government and agency securities):             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned(1)          

(1)  
  Fair values shown present the Company s exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include the effect of any related
hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Institutional Credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.     

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with the same
counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.     

(4)  
  In lieu of making an individual assessment of the creditworthiness of unrated companies, the Company makes a determination that the collateral held with respect to such obligations
is sufficient to cover a substantial portion of its exposure.              The following tables summarize the fair values of the Company s OTC derivative products recorded in Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity at November 30,
2007, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned:             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned          

(1)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable balances with the
same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.           
   95     

Table of Contents  

    OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased(1)          

(1)  
  Since these amounts are liabilities of the Company, they do not result in credit exposures.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable balances with the
same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The Company s derivatives (both listed and OTC) at November 30, 2007 and
November 30, 2006 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product:         
          Each category of derivative products
in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. Instruments in each category can be denominated in U.S. dollars or in one or more non-U.S. currencies.            The Company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing
models. For a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies  in Part I,
Item 2 and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.              Country
Exposure.      The Company monitors its credit exposure to individual countries. Credit exposure to a country arises from the Company s primary lending activities and derivatives activities in a country. At
November 30, 2007, based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 7% of the Company s credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising
from the Company s OTC derivatives contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 2% of the Company s credit exposure. The Company defines emerging markets to include generally all
countries that are not members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and includes as well the Czech Republic, Hungary, Korea, Mexico, Poland, the Slovak Republic and Turkey but excludes countries rated AA and Aa2 or above by
Standard   Poor s and Moody s Investors Service, respectively.         
   96     

Table of Contents  

     Industry Exposure.      The Company also monitors its credit exposure to individual
industries. At November 30, 2007, the Company s material credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the Company s OTC derivatives
contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: utilities, financial institutions, consumer-related entities, banks, telecommunications, sovereign and energy-related entities.              Global Wealth Management Group Activities.                Margin Lending.      Customer margin accounts, the primary
source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. The Company monitors required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to
deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of
the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. Additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to
liquidation of the underlying collateral. Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation
of industry concentrations. At November 30, 2007, there were approximately $7.3 billion of customer margin loans outstanding.              Non-purpose Securities-Based Lending:      Non-purpose securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value
of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. The Company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying
securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of non-purpose
securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible
hedging strategies. Underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry
concentrations.             Commercial Lending.      Global
Wealth Management Group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-size domestic businesses through Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services, Inc. ( CFS ). CFS  suite
of products includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. Clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements
to CFS  centralized credit processing platform. CFS  underwriting professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and
credit history. For standard transactions, credit requests are approved via signature of independent credit officers, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by
independent credit professionals. The facility is risk rated and upon credit approval is moved to the general portfolio where it is monitored periodically through account management, covenants compliance certificates, and spot and cycle audits.
             Consumer Lending Activities.              With respect to first mortgages and second mortgages within the Company s Institutional
Securities business segment, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. The Company s underwriting
policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., FICO scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower.
Loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. As part of the mortgage  
       
   97     

Table of Contents  

lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while almost all servicing rights
are retained. These sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk
refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance
risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). The Company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology
and facilities management). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal Risk.             The goal of the Company s operational risk management framework is to establish firm-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and
management. Operational risk policies are designed to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. As a foundation for the Basel II Advanced Measurement Approach, an
enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the calculation of capital related to operational risk. This model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk
and control self-assessments and scenario analysis. The Company will seek to obtain approval from the SEC to implement the Advanced Measurement Approach for Operational Risk Capital requirements in 2008.            The Company s Operational Risk Manager ( ORM ) oversees, monitors, measures,
analyzes and reports on operational risk across the Company. The ORM is independent of the business segments and is supported by the Firm-wide Operational Risk Department ( ORD ). The ORM is also responsible for facilitating, designing,
implementing and monitoring the Firm-wide operational risk program. The ORD works with the business segments and Control Groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and
across the Company, globally.            Primary responsibility for the management of
operational risk is with the business segments, the Control Groups, and the business managers therein. The business managers, generally, maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. As
new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. Each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. In addition, business segment risk committees review
operational risk matters and/or reports on a regular basis. Each Control Group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. Oversight of
business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees, a Firm-wide operational risk committee and, ultimately, senior management through the Firm Risk Committee.            Business Continuity Management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that ensures a
recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a Company-wide basis, and
redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of the Company s disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business segment recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other
elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing.            The Company
maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. Information security procedures are designed to protect the Company s information assets against
unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. These procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application system entitlement; data protection; internet and intranet access, communications and usage; and mobile and portable information
usage. The Company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access.         
   98     

Table of Contents  

   The Company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the Company s ongoing operations. These may
include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other
contractual agreements, service and quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors  performance. It is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future.             Legal Risk.             Legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes
contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see
 Business Regulation  in Part I, Item 1). The Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory
requirements. The Company, principally through the Legal and Compliance Division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the Company s policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally.
In connection with its businesses, the Company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured
transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty s performance
obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws
limit or alter contractual remedies. The legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the Company.         

   99     

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                
  
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have
audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of November 30, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash
flows and changes in shareholders  equity for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.            We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.         
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries as of
November 30, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
           As discussed in Note 2 and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements,
in fiscal 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment , and effective December 1, 2005, Morgan Stanley changed its accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to
retirement-eligible employees.            As discussed in Note 24 to the consolidated
financial statements, effective August 31, 2006, Morgan Stanley elected application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements .            As discussed in Note 2 and Note 3 to the consolidated
financial statements, effective December 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 .            Also, as discussed in Note 2 and Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) .            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2007, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated January 28, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting.            /s/ Deloitte  
Touche LLP      New York, New York      January 28, 2008         
   100   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   101     

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (Continued)        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   102     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated
Statements of Income        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   103     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income        (dollars in millions)          

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        
   104     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows        (dollars in millions)          
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH
FLOW INFORMATION       Cash payments for interest were $59,955 million, $39,667 million and $23,415 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005,
respectively.      Cash payments for income taxes were $3,404 million, $3,115 million and $1,536 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005,
respectively.            See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        
   105     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity        (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   106     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              
  1.     Introduction and Basis of Presentation.               The Company.      Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business
segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management.            A summary of the activities of each of the Company s business segments is as follows:             Institutional Securities  includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real
estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management
analytics; research; and investment activities.             Global
Wealth Management Group  provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash
management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and fund of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real
estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and the Company s institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages
in investment activities.              Discontinued Operations.     
         Discover.     On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the
spin-off (the  Discover Spin-off ) of its business segment Discover Financial Services ( DFS ). The results of DFS prior to the Discover Spin-off are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.             Quilter Holdings Ltd.     The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd.
( Quilter ) are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of Quilter were formerly included in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.             Aircraft Leasing.     The results of the Company s aircraft
leasing business are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on March 24, 2006. The results of the Company s aircraft leasing business were formerly included in the Institutional Securities business
segment.            See Note 22 for additional information on discontinued operations.
             Basis of Financial Information.      The
consolidated financial statements for the 12 months ended November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ), November 30, 2006 ( fiscal 2006 ) and November 30, 2005 ( fiscal 2005 ) are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, the outcome of litigation, tax and other matters that affect the
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these
estimates.            The Company, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ), adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and financial results for
the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 to reflect a  
       
   107     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 change in its hedge accounting for certain securities under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 133,  Accounting for
Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended ( SFAS No. 133 ). The same periods also reflect the adjustments of two compensation and benefit accruals. See Note 24 for additional information on SAB 108.   
        All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.              Consolidation  .    The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries, other entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest and certain variable interest entities ( VIE ).            For entities where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the
entity to finance its activities independently and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks of the entity and have the right to make decisions about the entity s activities, the Company consolidates those entities it
controls through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For entities that do not meet these criteria, commonly known as variable interest entities, the Company consolidates those entities where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary
when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of such entities.            Notwithstanding the above, certain securitization vehicles, commonly known as qualifying special purpose entities, are generally not consolidated by the Company if they
meet certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they may hold, the types of sales they may engage in and the range of discretion they may exercise in connection with the assets they hold.            For investments in entities in which the Company does not have a controlling financial
interest but has significant influence over operating and financial decisions, the Company generally applies the equity method of accounting, except in instances where the Company has elected to fair value certain eligible investments (see Note 3).
           Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting
purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.            The Company s
U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated ( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSJS ) and
Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc. On April 1, 2007, the Company merged Morgan Stanley DW Inc. ( MSDWI ) into MS Co. Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS Co., became the Company s principal U.S.
broker-dealer.              Income Statement
Presentation  .    The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments,
financial institutions and individuals. In connection with the delivery of the various products and services to clients, the Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such, when assessing the performance of its
businesses, the Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity for each of the Company s separate businesses.
           The Company s cost infrastructure supporting its businesses varies by
activity. In some cases, these costs are directly attributable to one line of business, and, in other cases, such costs relate to multiple businesses. As such, when assessing the performance of its businesses, the Company does not consider these
costs separately but rather assesses performance in the aggregate along with the related revenues.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Therefore, the Company s pricing structure considers various items, including the level of expenses incurred
directly and indirectly to support the cost infrastructure, the risk it incurs in connection with a transaction, the overall client relationship and the availability in the market for the particular product and/or service. Accordingly, the Company
does not manage or capture the costs associated with the products or services sold or its general and administrative costs by revenue line, in total or by product.             
  2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.               Revenue Recognition.               Investment Banking.     Underwriting revenues and fees from mergers, acquisitions and advisory assignments are recorded when services for the transactions are determined to be completed, generally as set forth
under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction, are deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking
transaction revenue. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded within Non-interest expenses.             Commissions.     The Company generates commissions from executing and clearing customer transactions on stock,
options and futures markets. Commission revenues are recorded in the accounts on trade date.             Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.     Asset management, distribution and administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period, generally quarterly or
annually. In certain management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance-based fees (also referred to as incentive fees) when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance
targets. In such arrangements, performance fee revenue is accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account/fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated in the investment management agreement.              Financial Instruments and Fair Value.              A significant portion of the Company s financial instruments is carried at fair value
with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. A description of the Company s policies regarding fair value measurement and its application to these financial instruments follows.             Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.     All of the
instruments within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, are measured at fair value, either through the fair value option election (discussed below) or as required by other accounting
pronouncements. These instruments primarily represent the Company s trading and investment activities and include both cash and derivative products. In addition, Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities
received as collateral are measured at fair value as required by other accounting pronouncements. Additionally, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), certain Deposits, Other secured financings and
certain Long-term borrowings (primarily structured debt) are measured at fair value through the fair value option election. Gains and losses on all of these instruments carried at fair value are reflected in Principal transactions trading
revenues or Principal transactions investment revenues in the consolidated statements of income. Interest income and expense and dividend income are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument
and related market conventions. When interest and dividends are included as a component of the instruments  fair value, interest and dividends are included within Principal transactions trading
revenues. Otherwise, they are included within Interest and dividend income or Interest expense.                Fair Value Option.     The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 159 ), effective December 1, 2006. SFAS No. 159 provides entities the option to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value with changes  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 in fair value recognized in earnings each period. SFAS No. 159 permits the fair value option election on an instrument-by-instrument basis at initial
recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Company applies the fair value option for certain eligible instruments, including certain loans and loan commitments, certain
equity method investments, certain structured notes, certain certificates of deposits and other secured financings. See  Accounting Developments  herein for additional information regarding the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 159.
            Fair Value Measurement Definition and
Hierarchy.     The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS No. 157 ), effective December 1, 2006. See  Accounting Developments  herein for
additional information regarding the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 157. Under this standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the  exit price ) in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.            In
determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches, including market, income and/or cost approaches. SFAS No. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and
minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained
from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information
available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the reliability of inputs as follows:         

Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation
adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of
judgment.               Assets and liabilities utilizing
Level 1 inputs include exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are actively traded, most U.S. Government securities and certain other sovereign government obligations.         

Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
              Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 2
inputs include: exchange-traded equity securities and listed derivatives that are not actively traded; most over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives; restricted stock; corporate and municipal bonds; certain corporate loans and loan
commitments; certain high-yield debt; certain residential and commercial mortgage loans; certain mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ), asset-backed securities ( ABS ), and collateralized debt obligation ( CDO )
securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; structured notes; physical commodities; and mortgage servicing rights.         

Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.               Assets and liabilities utilizing Level 3 inputs include: certain corporate
loans and loan commitments; certain commercial whole loans; certain mortgage loans; certain high-yield debt, distressed debt (i.e., securities of issuers encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy or insolvency); certain MBS, ABS and
CDO securities; retained interests in certain securitization transactions; investments in real estate funds; private equity investments; and complex over-the-counter derivatives (including certain foreign currency options; long-dated commodity
options and swaps; certain mortgage-related credit default swaps; derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs; and basket credit default swaps).         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors,
including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics particular to the transaction. To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less
observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3. In certain
cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its
entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.           Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant who holds the asset or owes the liability rather than an entity-specific
measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company s own assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. The Company uses
prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause
an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3 (see Note 3).             Valuation Techniques .    Many cash and OTC contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that the Company and others are
willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that the Company and others are willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the Company does not require that fair value
always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. The Company s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the Company s best estimate of fair value. For offsetting
positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.            Fair value for many cash and OTC contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple
inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the impact of the
Company s own credit spreads are also considered when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including OTC derivative contracts. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors, including bid-ask spreads,
credit quality and market liquidity. These adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available.             OTC Derivative Contracts.     OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign currencies,
credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.            Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and
simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is
the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC
derivative products valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            Other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex products, will require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the
complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 observability of inputs. This includes certain credit default swaps where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. Derivative interests in
mortgage-related CDOs, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market for similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary market activity in the cash CDO and synthetic CDO
market. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures (e.g., non-amortizing
reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant
judgment. Mortgage-related credit default swaps are valued based on data from comparable credit instruments in the cash market and trades in comparable swaps as benchmarks, as prices and spreads for the specific credits subject to valuation tend to
be of limited observability. For basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation between reference credits is often a significant input into the pricing model, in addition to several other more observable inputs such as credit
spread, interest and recovery rates. As the correlation input is unobservable for each specific swap, it is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which external data are available. These instruments involve significant unobservable inputs
and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The Company trades
various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier spread curves, volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some
cases, the correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to
observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input values. Commodity derivatives are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in
instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             Other Sovereign Government Obligations .    The fair value of foreign sovereign government obligations is generally based on quoted prices in
active markets. When quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the
bond in terms of issuer, maturity and seniority. These bonds are generally categorized in Levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Municipal Bonds .    The fair value of municipal bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations and pricing
models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Corporate Bonds .    The fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market
price quotations (where observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads. The spread data used are for the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer is used. When
observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates based on collateral values as key inputs. Corporate bonds are
generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the hierarchy.       
      Corporate Loans and Loan Commitments.     The fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently executed transactions,
market price quotations (where observable) and market observable credit default swap levels along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The fair value
of contingent corporate loan commitments is estimated by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of these commitments also
takes into account certain fee income.  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 While certain corporate loans, closed loan commitments and revolving loans are Level 2 instruments, certain other corporate loans and contingent corporate
loan commitments are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             Mortgage Loans.     The valuation of mortgage loans depends upon the exit market for the loan. Loans not intended for securitization are valued based on the analysis of the underlying collateral performance,
capital structure and market spreads for comparable positions as prices and/or spreads for specific credits tend to be unobservable. Where comparables do not exist, such loans are valued based on origination price and collateral performance (credit
events) since origination. These loans are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The Company also holds certain loan products and mortgage products with the intent to securitize them. When structuring of the related securitization is substantially complete, such that the value likely to be
realized in a current transaction is consistent with the price that a securitization entity will pay to acquire these products, the Company marks them to the expected securitized value. Factors affecting the value of loan and mortgage products
intended to be securitized include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratio, updated cumulative loan loss data, prepayment rates,
yields, investor demand, any significant market volatility since the last securitization, and credit enhancement. While these valuation factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it
relates to specific positions may require significant judgment. These instruments are classified in Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             U.S. Agency Securities .    U.S. agency securities include To-be-announced ( TBA ) securities and mortgage pass-through certificates.
TBA securities are liquid and have quoted market prices. Fair value of mortgage pass-through certificates is determined via a simulation model, which considers different rate scenarios and historical activity to calculate a spread to the comparable
TBA security. U.S. agency securities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities ( CMBS ) and Asset-Backed Securities ( ABS ).     CMBS and ABS may be valued based on external price/spread data. When
position-specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable bonds. Included in this category are certain interest-only securities, which, in the absence of market prices, are valued as a function of
observable whole bond prices and cash flow values of principal-only bonds using current market assumptions at the measurement date. CMBS and ABS are categorized in Level 3 if external prices are unobservable; otherwise they are categorized in Level
2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Retained Interests in Securitization
Transactions.     The Company engages in securitization activities related to various types of loans and bonds. The Company may retain interests in securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. To
determine fair values, observable inputs are used if available. Observable inputs, however, may not be available for certain retained interests so the Company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its
best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. When there are no significant unobservable inputs, retained interests are
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. When unobservable inputs are significant to the fair value measurement, albeit generally supportable by historical and actual benchmark data, retained interests are categorized in Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy.             Investments in Private Equity and Real
Estate  .     The Company s investments in private equity and real estate take the form of direct private equity investments and investment in private equity and real estate funds. The transaction price is used as
the best estimate of fair value at inception. When evidence supports a change to the  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 carrying value from the transaction price, adjustments are made to reflect expected exit values. Ongoing reviews by Company management are based on an
assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating valuations that consider the evaluation of financing and sale transactions with third parties, expected cash flows and market-based information, including comparable company transactions,
performance multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. These nonpublic investments are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently, and, therefore, the fair value is unobservable.             Physical Commodities .    The Company trades various physical
commodities, including crude oil and refined products, metals and agricultural products. Fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Deposits .    The fair value of certificates of deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. These deposits are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            Structured Notes .    The Company issues structured notes that have
coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models described in this section for the derivative and debt features
of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates. The impact of the Company s own credit spreads also is included based on
the Company s observed secondary bond market spreads. Most structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.             Fair Value Measurement Other.             Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company followed the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 02-3,  Issues
Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities  ( EITF Issue No. 02-3 ). Under EITF Issue No. 02-3, recognition of day one
profit at inception of an OTC derivative contract was prohibited unless the fair value of the contract was based on a valuation technique incorporating observable market data. With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company is no longer applying
the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3.            The fair value
of OTC financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate.
Additionally, the Company nets fair value of cash collateral paid or received against its derivatives inventory under credit support annexes, which the Company views as conditional contracts, pursuant to legally enforceable master netting
agreements.                  Hedge Accounting      .
           The Company applies hedge accounting for hedges involving various derivative
financial instruments and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt used to hedge interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value. These derivative financial instruments are included within Financial
instruments owned Derivative contracts or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased Derivative contracts in the consolidated statements of financial condition.            The Company s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes as one of the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in
fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges), hedges of the variability of future cash flows from floating rate assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (cash flow hedges) and hedges of net
investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other procedures to ensure the
ongoing validity of the hedges are performed at least monthly. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness on the consolidated statements of income, primarily related to fair value hedges, was a gain of $132 million during fiscal 2007. The amount excluded
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness was immaterial. If a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, it is thereafter accounted for as a financial instrument used for trading.             Fair Value Hedges Interest Rate Risk  .  In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company began using regression analysis to
perform an ongoing prospective and retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships (i.e., the Company applied the  long-haul  method of hedge accounting). A hedging relationship is deemed effective if the fair
values of the hedging instrument (derivative) and the hedged item (debt liability) change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%.            Previously, the Company s designated fair value hedges consisted primarily of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of changes in the benchmark
interest rate of fixed rate borrowings, including both certificates of deposit and senior long-term borrowings. For these hedges, the Company ensured that the terms of the hedging instruments and hedged items matched and that other accounting
criteria were met so that the hedges were assumed to have no ineffectiveness (i.e., the Company applied the  shortcut  method of hedge accounting). The Company also used interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the benchmark interest
rate risk of host contracts of equity-linked notes that contained embedded derivatives. For these hedging relationships, regression analysis was used for the prospective and retrospective assessments of hedge effectiveness.            For qualifying fair value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value
of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense. When a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis
adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the remaining life of the liability using the effective interest method.             Fair Value Hedges Credit Risk  .  Until the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company had designated a portion of a credit derivative embedded in a non-recourse
structured note liability as a fair value hedge of the credit risk arising from a loan receivable to which the structured note liability was specifically linked. Regression analysis was used to perform prospective and retrospective assessments of
hedge effectiveness for this hedge relationship. The changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged item provided offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, were recorded in
Principal transactions trading revenues. This hedge was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2007 upon derecognition of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item.             Cash Flow Hedges .    Before the sale of the aircraft leasing business (see Note 22), the Company applied hedge
accounting to interest rate swaps used to hedge variable rate long-term borrowings associated with this business. Changes in the fair value of the swaps were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders  equity, net
of tax effects, and then reclassified to Interest expense as interest on the hedged borrowings was recognized.            In connection with the sale of the aircraft leasing business, the Company de-designated the interest rate swaps associated with this business effective August 31, 2005 and no longer accounts for them as cash flow
hedges. Amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to those interest rate swaps continue to be reclassified to Interest expense since the related borrowings remain outstanding. The Company estimates that approximately $22
million of the unrealized loss recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of November 30, 2007 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Net Investment Hedges .    The Company utilizes forward foreign exchange contracts and
non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations. No hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings since the notional amounts of the hedging
instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged, and, where forward contracts are used, the currencies being exchanged are the functional currencies of the parent and investee; where debt instruments are used as hedges, they are
denominated in the functional currency of the investee. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
Shareholders  equity, net of tax effects. The forward points on the hedging instruments are recorded in Interest and dividend revenues or expense.              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.              For purposes of these statements, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid investments not held for resale with maturities, when purchased, of three
months or less. In connection with business acquisitions, the Company assumed liabilities of $7,704 million, $1,377 million and $58 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. In connection with the Discover Spin-off, net
assets of approximately $5,558 million were distributed to shareholders (see Note 22). At November 30, 2007, $8,086 million of securities were transferred from Securities available for sale to Financial instruments owned (see Note 8).
               Securitization Activities.                The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential
mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations and other types of financial assets (see Note 5). Generally, such transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when the Company has relinquished
control over the transferred assets. The gain or loss on sale of such financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon
their respective fair values at the date of sale. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are accounted for as secured borrowings.              Premises, Equipment and Software Costs.              Premises and equipment consist of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, computer and communications equipment, power plants, tugs, barges, terminals,
pipelines and software (externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: buildings 39 years; furniture and fixtures 7 years, computer and communications equipment 3 to 8 years; power plants 15 years; tugs and
barges 15 years; and terminals and pipelines 3 to 25 years. Estimated useful lives for software costs are generally 3 to 5 years.            Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of the lease, but generally not
exceeding: 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.            Certain costs incurred in connection with internal-use software projects are capitalized and amortized over the expected useful life of the asset, generally 3 to 5 years.              Income Taxes.              Income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Earnings per Common Share.              Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities.              Stock-Based Compensation.              The Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ), using the modified prospective approach as of
December 1, 2004. SFAS No. 123R revised the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payment liabilities, forfeitures and modifications of stock-based awards and clarified guidance in several areas, including measuring fair
value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to service periods. Upon adoption, the Company recognized an $80 million gain ($49 million after-tax) as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 resulting from the requirement to estimate forfeitures at the date of grant instead of recognizing them as incurred. The cumulative effect gain increased both basic and diluted earnings per share in
fiscal 2005 by $0.05.            SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation
cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company determines the fair value of restricted stock units based on the number of units granted and the grant
date fair value of the Company s common stock, measured as the volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the single grant life method. Under the
single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted-average expected option life. Compensation expense for all stock-based payment awards is recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. The
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) allows employees to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at a 15% discount from market value. The Company expenses the 15% discount associated with the ESPP.            For stock-based awards issued prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company s
accounting policy for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees is to recognize compensation cost over the service period specified in the award terms. The Company accelerates any unrecognized compensation cost for such awards if and when a
retirement-eligible employee leaves the Company.            For fiscal 2005 year-end
stock-based compensation awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in December 2005, the Company recognized the compensation cost for such awards at the date of grant instead of over the service period specified in the award terms.
As a result, the Company recorded non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $260 million in fiscal 2006 for stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees as part of the fiscal 2005 year-end award process and for
awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, including new hires, in fiscal 2006. These incremental expenses were included within Compensation and benefits expense and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($190
million), Global Wealth Management Group ($50 million) and Asset Management ($20 million) business segments.            Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end
equity awards that are granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of the following year. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year. As such,
the Company accrued the estimated cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the 2007 fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2007). The Company believes
that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   If the Company had accrued the estimated cost of equity awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the
course of the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005 rather than expensing such awards at the grant date in December 2005, net income would have decreased during fiscal 2005. The approximate resulting pro forma net income would have been $4,684
million rather than the reported amount of $4,939 million. The approximate resulting impact on earnings per share for fiscal 2005 would have been a reduction in the reported amounts of earnings per basic share from $4.70 to $4.46 and earnings per
diluted share from $4.57 to $4.34.              Translation of Foreign
Currencies.      Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates of
exchange for the year. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of
Shareholders  equity. Gains or losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are included in net income.              Goodwill and Intangible Assets.      Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized and are reviewed annually (or more frequently
under certain conditions) for impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives.              Investments in Unconsolidated Investees.      The Company invests in unconsolidated investees that own synthetic fuel production plants and in certain structured transactions not
integral to the operations of the Company. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method. The Company s share of the (losses) generated by these investments is recorded within (Losses) gains from unconsolidated investees,
and the applicable tax credits and the tax benefits associated with these operating losses are recorded within the Provision for income taxes.              Deferred Compensation Arrangements.      The Company maintains trusts, commonly referred to as rabbi trusts, in connection with certain
deferred compensation plans. Assets of rabbi trusts are consolidated, and the value of the Company s stock held in rabbi trusts is classified in Shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The
Company has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in Employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has issued to its rabbi trusts are recorded in Common stock issued to employee trust. Both Employee stock trust and
Common stock issued to employee trust are components of Shareholders  equity. The Company recognizes the original amount of deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grant see Note 18) as the basis for
recognition in Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to employees are not recognized as the Company s deferred compensation plans do not permit diversification and must be
settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company s common stock.              Accounting Developments.               Limited
Partnerships.     In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) ratified the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 04-5,  Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners
as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights  ( EITF Issue No. 04-5 ). Under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 04-5, a general partner in a limited partnership is
presumed to control that limited partnership and, therefore, should include the limited partnership in its consolidated financial statements, regardless of the amount or extent of the general partner s interest unless a simple majority of the
limited partners can vote to dissolve or liquidate the partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without having to show cause or the limited partners have substantive participating rights that can overcome the presumption of control by the
general partner. EITF Issue No. 04-5 was effective immediately for all newly formed limited partnerships and existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 have been modified. For all other existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements have not been modified, the Company adopted EITF Issue
No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments.     In
February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  ( SFAS No. 155 ), which amends SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging
Activities,  as amended ( SFAS No. 133 ), and SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 140 ), and permits hybrid financial
instruments that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation to irrevocably be accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the statement of income. The fair value election may be applied on an
instrument-by-instrument basis. SFAS No. 155 also eliminates a restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may hold. The Company adopted SFAS No. 155 on December 1, 2006. Since SFAS
No. 159 incorporates accounting and disclosure requirements that are similar to SFAS No. 155, the Company decided to apply SFAS No. 159, rather than SFAS No. 155, to its fair value elections for hybrid financial instruments.
            Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets.     In
March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  ( SFAS No. 156 ), which requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at
fair value, if practicable. The standard permits an entity to subsequently measure each class of servicing assets or servicing liabilities at fair value and report changes in fair value in the statement of income in the period in which the changes
occur. The Company adopted SFAS No. 156 on December 1, 2006 and elected to fair value mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) held as of the date of adoption. This election did not have a material impact on the Company s opening
balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2006. The Company also elected to fair value MSRs acquired after December 1, 2006.             Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.     In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold
and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The adoption of FIN 48 on December 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Fair Value Measurements.     In September 2006, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 157, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and enhances disclosures requirements for fair value measurements. In addition, SFAS No. 157 disallows the use of block discounts when measuring
financial instruments that trade with quoted prices in an active market. It also nullifies select guidance provided by EITF Issue No. 02-3, which prohibited the recognition of trading gains or losses at the inception of a derivative contract,
unless the fair value of such derivative is based on a valuation technique that incorporates observable market data. SFAS No. 157 also requires the Company to consider its own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities,
including derivatives. Effective December 1, 2006, the Company elected early adoption of SFAS No. 157. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 157 related to block discounts and EITF Issue No. 02-3, the Company recorded a
cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $84 million after-tax as an increase to the opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2006, which was primarily associated with EITF Issue No. 02-3. The impact of considering the
Company s own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives, did not have a material impact on fair value measurements at the date of adoption. With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company no longer
applies the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Employee Benefit Plans.     In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ). Among other items, SFAS No. 158 required
recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of the Company s defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending November 30, 2007. The Company
recorded an after-tax charge of $208 million to Shareholders  equity upon the adoption of this requirement. SFAS No. 158 also requires the measurement of defined benefit and postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of
the fiscal year. SFAS No. 158 s requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company expects to early adopt a fiscal year-end measurement
date for its fiscal year ending November 30, 2008 and currently expects to record an after-tax charge of approximately $15 million to Shareholders  equity upon adoption.             Fair Value Option .    In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 159, which provides entities the option to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. SFAS No. 159 permits the fair value option election on
an instrument-by-instrument basis at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. Effective December 1, 2006, the Company elected early adoption of SFAS
No. 159 for certain eligible instruments, including certain equity method investments, certain loans and loan commitments, certain certificates of deposits and certain structured notes. Such instruments included loans and other financial
instruments held by subsidiaries that are not registered broker-dealers as defined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ( AICPA ) Audit and Accounting Guide,  Brokers and Dealers in Securities , or that are not
held by investment companies as defined in the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide,  Investment Companies . A substantial portion of these positions, as well as the financial instruments included within Other secured financings, had been accounted
for by the Company at fair value prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159. Financial instruments under the fair value option election are primarily reflected within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in
the consolidated statement of financial condition. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 159, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $102 million after-tax as an increase to the opening balance of Retained
earnings as of December 1, 2006.             Offsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts.     In April 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FIN 39-1,  Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 , ( FSP FIN 39-1 ). FSP FIN 39-1 amends certain
provisions of FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts,  and permits companies to offset fair value amounts recognized for cash collateral receivables or payables against fair value amounts recognized for net derivative
positions executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. FSP FIN 39-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early application permitted. The adoption of FSP FIN 39-1 on December 1,
2007 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Investment Company Accounting.     In June 2007, the AICPA issued Statement of Position ( SOP ) 07 1,  Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide
 Investment Companies  and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies  ( SOP 07-1 ). SOP 07-1 provides guidance for determining whether an entity is within the scope of the
AICPA  Audit and Accounting Guide  Investment Companies   (the  Guide ). SOP 07-1 addresses whether the specialized industry accounting principles of the Guide should be retained by a parent company in consolidation. In
addition, SOP 07-1 includes certain disclosure requirements for parent companies and equity method investors in investment companies that retain investment company accounting in the parent company s consolidated financial statements or the
financial statements of an equity method investor. SOP 07-1, as originally issued, was to be effective for the Company as  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 of December 1, 2008. In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 46R-7,  Application of FIN 46R to Investment Companies,  ( FSP
FIN 46R-7 ) which amends FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( FIN 46R ) to make permanent the temporary deferral of the application of FIN 46R to entities within the
scope of the revised audit guide under SOP 07-1. FSP FIN 46R-7 is effective upon adoption of SOP 07-1. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting SOP 07-1 and FSP FIN 46R-7. In November 2007, the FASB issued a proposed FSP
SOP 07-1-a to delay indefinitely the effective date of SOP 07-1.             Dividends
on Share-Based Payment Awards.     In June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards  ( EITF Issue No. 06-11 ).
EITF Issue No. 06-11 requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units that are expected to vest be recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company currently accounts for this tax
benefit as a reduction to its income tax provision. EITF Issue No. 06-11 is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the
potential impact of adopting EITF Issue No. 06-11.                 Business Combinations     .    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS No. 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) requires the
acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction (whether a full or partial acquisition); establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement
objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; requires expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand
the nature and financial effect of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) applies to all transactions or other events in which the Company obtains control of one or more businesses, including those sometimes referred to as  true
mergers  or  mergers of equals  and combinations achieved without the transfer of consideration, for example, by contract alone or through the lapse of minority veto rights. SFAS No. 141(R) applies prospectively to business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after December 1, 2009.             Noncontrolling Interests .    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin
No. 51  ( SFAS No. 160 ). SFAS No. 160 requires reporting entities to present noncontrolling (minority) interests as equity (as opposed to as a liability or mezzanine equity) and provides guidance on the accounting for
transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 160 applies prospectively as of December 1, 2009, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements which will be applied retrospectively for all periods
presented.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  3.    Fair Value Disclosures.               Fair Value Measurements.             The Company s assets and
liabilities recorded at fair value have been categorized based upon a fair value hierarchy in accordance with SFAS No. 157. See Note 2 for a discussion of the Company s policies regarding this hierarchy.            The following fair value hierarchy tables present information about the Company s assets
and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of November 30, 2007:             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis as of November 30, 2007          

(1)  
  Amounts represent the impact of counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that
level.     

(2)  
  Amount represents MSRs accounted for at fair value (see Note 5).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents additional information about Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains and losses for assets and liabilities within the Level 3
category presented in the tables below do not reflect the related realized or unrealized gains and losses on hedging instruments that have been classified by the Company within the Level 1 and/or Level 2 categories. Additionally, both
observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions that the Company has classified within the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains and losses for assets and
liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g., changes in market interest rates) and unobservable (e.g., changes in
unobservable long-dated volatilities) inputs.             Changes in Level 3 Assets and
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2007          

(1)  
  The net gains from Net derivative contracts and the net losses from Corporate and other debt resulted from market movements primarily associated with credit products and various
credit linked instruments, respectively. The net gains in Level 3 Net derivative contracts were primarily driven by certain credit default swaps and other instruments associated with the Company s credit products and securitized products
activities. The net losses in Level 3 Corporate and other debt were primarily driven by certain asset-backed securities, including residential and commercial mortgage loans, and by corporate loans and loan commitments.     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

These results are only a component of the overall trading strategies of these businesses and do not take into consideration any related financial instruments that have been
classified by the Company within the Level 1 and/or Level 2 categories. For example, the Company recorded offsetting net losses in Level 2 Net derivative contracts, which were primarily associated with the Company s credit products and
securitized products activities.           

The Company reclassified certain Corporate and other debt and Net derivative contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement
became unobservable. These reclassifications included transfers in the fourth quarter primarily related to the continued market and liquidity deterioration in the mortgage markets. The most material transfers into Level 3 were in commercial whole
loans, residuals from residential securitizations, and interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds as well as commercial and residential credit default swaps.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent Financial instruments owned derivative contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivative contracts.     

(3)  
  The net gains from Financial instruments owned investments were primarily related to investments associated with the Company s real estate products and private equity
portfolio.     

(4)  
  These assets were disposed of in connection with the Discover Spin-off.              The following table presents the amounts of unrealized gains or (losses) for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007 relating to those assets and liabilities for
which the Company utilized significant Level 3 inputs to determine fair value and that were still held by the Company at November 30, 2007:             Fiscal 2007 Unrealized Gains (Losses) for Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Still Held at November 30, 2007          

Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2007    

Principal     Transactions:     Trading   

Principal     Transactions:     Investments    

(dollars in millions)    
 
     Assets    

Financial instruments owned:   

U.S. government and agency securities   
      
  $  
  49  

$  

Other sovereign government obligations   

2  

Corporate and other debt   

(4,528  
  )  

Corporate equities   

515  

Investments   

1,492   
 
    Net derivative contracts   

(3,294  
  )  

Liabilities    

Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased:   

Corporate and other debt   
      
  $  
  (455  
  )  
     
  $  

Corporate equities   

(27  
  )  

Long-term borrowings   

(116  
  )  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Fair Value Option.             The following table presents information about the eligible instruments for which the Company elected the fair value option and for which a
transition adjustment was recorded as of December 1, 2006:         
        The transition adjustments were primarily related to the following:         

(1)  
  Loans and loan commitments made in connection with Institutional Securities  corporate lending activities. The fair value option was elected for these positions as they are
generally risk managed on a fair value basis.     

(2)  
  Certain mortgage lending products which are risk managed by the Institutional Securities business segment on a fair value basis. The Company did not elect the fair value option for
other eligible mortgage lending products that were managed by the Discover business segment prior to the Discover Spin-off.     

(3)  
  Certain investments that had been previously accounted for under the equity method, as well as certain interests in clearinghouses. The fair value option was elected only for
positions that are risk managed on a fair value basis.     

(4)  
  Structured notes and other hybrid long-term debt instruments. The fair value option was elected for these positions as they are risk managed on a fair value basis. The fair value
option was elected for all such instruments issued after December 1, 2006 and a portion of the portfolio of instruments outstanding as of December 1, 2006. The fair value option was not elected for the remaining portion of the portfolio
that existed as of December 1, 2006 due to cost-benefit considerations, including the operational effort involved.     

(5)  
  Brokered and callable certificates of deposit issued by certain of the Company s bank subsidiaries. The fair value option was elected for these positions as they are
risk-managed on a fair value basis. The Company did not elect the fair value option for other eligible instruments within Deposits that were managed by the Discover business segment prior to the Discover Spin-off.              The following table presents gains and (losses) due to changes in fair value for items
measured at fair value pursuant to the fair value option election for fiscal year ended November 30, 2007:         

(1)  
  In addition to these amounts, as discussed in Note 2, all of the instruments within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are measured at
fair value, either through the election of SFAS No. 159 or as required by other accounting pronouncements. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in Principal transactions trading and Principal
transactions investment revenues.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of November 30, 2007, the aggregate contractual principal amount of loans for which
the fair value option was elected exceeded the fair value of such loans by approximately $28,880 million. The aggregate fair value of loans that were 90 or more days past due as of November 30, 2007 was $6,588 million. The aggregate
contractual principal amount of such loans 90 or more days past due exceeded their fair value by approximately $23,501 million. This difference in amount primarily emanates from the Company s distressed debt trading business, which purchases
distressed debt at amounts well below par.            For the fiscal year ended
November 30, 2007, changes in the fair value of loans for which the fair value option was elected that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were losses of $2,258 million. Instrument-specific credit losses were
determined by excluding the non-credit components of gains and losses, such as those due to changes in interest rates.            For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007, the estimated changes in the fair value of the Company s short-term and long-term borrowings, including structured
notes, for which the fair value option was elected that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were gains of approximately $840 million. This gain was attributable to the widening of the Company s credit
spreads and was determined based upon observations of the Company s secondary bond market spreads. As of November 30, 2007, the aggregate contractual principal amount of long-term debt instruments for which the fair value option was
elected exceeded the fair value of such instruments by approximately $1,572 million.            The estimated change in the fair value of other liabilities for which the fair value option was elected that was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads was a loss of approximately $291 million in the fiscal year
ended November 30, 2007. This loss was primarily related to leveraged loan contingent commitments and was attributable to the illiquid market conditions that existed late in the year. It was generally determined based on the differential
between estimated expected client yields at November 30, 2007 and contractual yields.              Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value.              Some of the Company s financial instruments are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but nevertheless are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature. Such
financial assets and financial liabilities include: Cash and cash equivalents, the cash component of Cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, Securities purchased
under agreements to resell, Securities borrowed, Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Securities loaned, Receivables customers, Receivables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, Payables customers,
Payables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, and certain Deposits.            The Company s long-term borrowings are recorded at historical amounts unless elected under the SFAS No. 159 fair value election or designated as a hedged item
in a fair value hedge under SFAS No. 133. The fair value of the Company s long-term borrowings was estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analyses based on the Company s current borrowing rates for similar
types of borrowing arrangements. At November 30, 2007, the carrying value of the Company s long-term borrowings was approximately $3.3 billion higher than fair value. At November 30, 2006, the carrying value of the Company s
long-term borrowings was approximately $1.8 billion less than fair value.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  4.    Collateralized Transactions.             Securities purchased under agreements to resell ( reverse repurchase agreements ) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ), principally government and agency securities, are carried at
the amounts at which the securities subsequently will be resold or reacquired as specified in the respective agreements; such amounts include accrued interest. Reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are presented on a
net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. The Company s policy is to take possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities borrowed and Securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced and
received in connection with the transactions. Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated variable interest entities where the Company
is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and certain equity-referenced securities and loans where in all instances these liabilities are payable solely from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Financial instruments owned.
           The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to collateralize
repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated statements of financial
condition. The carrying value and classification of securities owned by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were as follows:   
     
          The Company enters into reverse
repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers  needs
and to finance the Company s inventory positions. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. Under these agreements and transactions, the Company either receives or provides collateral,
including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities. The Company receives collateral in the form of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed and derivative transactions, and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into
securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. At November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, the fair value of securities received as collateral where the Company is permitted to
sell or repledge the securities was $948 billion and $942 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $708 billion and $780 billion, respectively.            The Company additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with certain
securities for securities transactions in which the Company is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities, the Company reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related obligation to
return the collateral in the consolidated statement of financial condition. At November 30, 2007 and November 30,  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 2006, $82 billion and $65 billion, respectively, were reported as Securities received as collateral and an Obligation to return securities received as
collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Collateral received in connection with these transactions that was subsequently repledged was approximately $72 billion and $45 billion at November 30, 2007 and November 30,
2006, respectively.            The Company manages credit exposure arising from reverse
repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties that provide the Company,
in the event of a customer default, the right to liquidate collateral and the right to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable
or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company s agreements with third parties specify its rights to
request additional collateral. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activity are collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. For these transactions, adherence to the Company s collateral policies significantly
limits the Company s credit exposure in the event of customer default. The Company may request additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase
securities sold but not delivered from customers.             
  5.    Securitization Activities and Variable Interest Entities.               Securitization Activities  .    The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans,
U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. Special purpose entities ( SPEs ), also known as variable interest entities ( VIEs ) are typically
used in such securitization transactions. Transferred assets are carried at fair value prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the
beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles. Underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the
securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained
interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $5.3 billion at November 30, 2007, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation
securitization transactions. Net gains at the time of securitization were not material in fiscal 2007.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents information on the Company s residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan
and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of the retained interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions at
November 30, 2007 were as follows (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Amounts for residential mortgage loans exclude positive valuation effects from immediate 10% and 20% changes.     

(2)  
  Commercial mortgage loans typically contain provisions that either prohibit or economically penalize the borrower from prepaying the loan for a specified period of time.
             The weighted average assumptions and parameters used initially
to value retained interests in relation to securitizations that were still held by the Company as of November 30, 2007 were as follows:         
          The tables above do not include the
offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge risks inherent in its retained interests. In addition, the sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on a
10% or 20% variation in an assumption generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair
value of the retained interests is calculated independent of changes in any other assumption; in practice, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. In addition, the sensitivity
analysis does not consider any corrective action that the Company may take to mitigate the impact of any adverse changes in the key assumptions.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   During fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company received proceeds from new securitization transactions
of $64 billion, $68 billion and $65 billion, respectively, and cash flows from retained interests in securitization transactions of $6.0 billion, $6.0 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.              Mortgage Servicing Rights.      The Company may retain
servicing rights to certain mortgage loans that are sold through its securitization activities. These transactions create an asset referred to as MSRs, which are included within Intangible assets in the consolidated statements of financial
condition.            The following table presents information about the Company s
MSRs, which relate to its mortgage loan business activities (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Amount includes MSRs obtained in connection with the Company s acquisition of Saxon Capital, Inc. (see Note 23).     

(2)  
  These amounts are recorded within Other revenues in the Company s consolidated statements of income.           

Fiscal     2007   

Assumptions Used in Measuring Fair Value:    

Weighted average discount rate   
      
  18.11  
  %   
 
    Weighted average prepayment speed assumption   
      
  713PSA  
      
          The Company generally utilizes
information provided by third parties in order to determine the fair value of its MSRs. The valuation of MSRs consist of projecting servicing cash flows and discounting such cash flows using an appropriate risk-adjusted discount
rate. These valuations require estimation of various assumptions, including future servicing fees, credit losses and other related costs, discount rates and mortgage prepayment speeds. The Company also compares the estimated fair
values of the MSRs from the valuations with observable trades of similar instruments or portfolios. Due to subsequent changes in economic and market conditions, the actual rates of prepayments, credit losses and the value of collateral may differ
significantly from the Company s original estimates. Such differences could be material. If actual prepayment rates and credit losses were higher than those assumed, the value of the Company s MSRs could be adversely affected. The Company
may hedge a portion of its MSRs through the use of financial instruments, including certain derivative contracts.              Variable Interest Entities.      FASB Interpretation No. 46, as revised ( FIN 46R ),  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities,  applies to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns or both, as a result of holding variable interests. The
Company consolidates entities in which it is the primary beneficiary. For those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in SFAS No. 140), the Company does not consolidate the entity. See Note 1 regarding the
characteristics of qualifying special purpose entities.            The Company is
involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be VIEs. The Company s variable interests in VIEs include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees and derivative instruments. The Company s
involvement with VIEs arises primarily from:         

Purchased, sold and retained interests in connection with market making and securitization activities.            

Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations.            

Loans and investments made to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets.            

Derivatives entered into with variable interest entities.            

Structuring of credit linked notes or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.            

Other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.               The following table sets forth the Company s total assets and maximum exposure to loss
associated with VIEs that the Company consolidated at November 30, 2007. The Company accounts for the assets held by the entities as Financial instruments owned and the liabilities of the entities as Other secured financings in the consolidated
statement of financial condition (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  The Company s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the VIE s assets. The maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the
Company s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the fair value of certain other derivatives and investments the
Company has made in the VIEs. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect writedowns already recorded by the Company. The Company s maximum exposure to loss does not
include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with the Company s variable interests.     

(2)  
  The Company s maximum exposure to loss associated with Credit and real estate VIEs exceeds the consolidated assets of these entities. This is due to the inclusion in this
category of certain VIEs that typically hold a limited amount of non-derivative security positions and instead obtain market exposure through the use of derivatives. Given the use of such derivatives, the risk of loss associated with such entities
typically exceeds the carrying value of their assets. The Company s maximum exposure to loss associated with such consolidated variable interest entities is generally limited to the notional amount of the Company s derivatives entered into
with the VIE and the fair value of any non-derivative security positions held by the Company.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table sets forth the Company s total assets and maximum exposure to loss associated with
non-consolidated VIEs in which the Company had significant variable interests at November 30, 2007 (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  The Company s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the VIE s assets. The maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the
Company s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the fair value of certain other derivatives and investments the
Company has made in the VIEs. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect writedowns already recorded by the Company. The Company s maximum exposure to loss does not
include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with the Company s variable interests.              At November 30, 2006, in connection with its Institutional Securities business, the aggregate size of VIEs for which the Company was
the primary beneficiary of the entities was approximately $20.4 billion, which is the carrying amount of the consolidated assets recorded as Financial instruments owned that are collateral for the entities  obligations. At November 30,
2006, also in connection with its Institutional Securities business, the aggregate size of the entities for which the Company holds significant variable interests was approximately $34.7 billion.             
  6.    Sales and Trading Activities.             The Company s institutional sales and trading activities are conducted through the integrated management of its client-driven and proprietary transactions along with the hedging and financing of these positions. Sales and trading
activities include revenues from customer purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s positions. The Company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its
own account. Revenues from sales and trading activities are reflected in Principal transactions trading, Commissions, Interest and dividends, and Interest expense in the consolidated statement of income.            The Company s trading portfolios are managed with a view toward the risk and
profitability of the portfolios. The following discussions of risk management, market risk, credit risk, concentration risk and customer activities relate to the Company s sales and trading activities.              Risk Management.      The cornerstone of the Company s
risk management philosophy is protection of the Company s franchise, reputation and financial standing. The Company s risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined
risk tolerance and transparency. Given the importance of effective risk management to the Company s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Risk management at the Company requires independent Company-level oversight, accountability of the Company s
business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. The Company s senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the Company
and business segment level. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the Company s risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is
evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification.            The
nature of the Company s risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the Company s risk governance structure. The Company s risk governance structure includes the Firm Risk Committee, the Capital Structure and
Strategic Transactions Committee, the Chief Risk Officer, the Internal Audit Department, independent control groups, and various risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across the business segments.            The Firm Risk Committee, composed of the Company s most senior officers, oversees the
Company s risk management structure. The Firm Risk Committee s responsibilities include oversight of the Company s risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise
risks. The Firm Risk Committee is overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Audit Committee ). The Capital Structure and Strategic Transactions Committee (the  Capital Committee ) reviews strategic
transactions for the Company and significant changes to the Company s capital structure. The Capital Committee s responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the Company s risk
profile and strategy.            The Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm Risk
Committee, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves certain excessions of Company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Audit Committee.
           The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment
and reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The Internal Audit Department periodically examines the Company s operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk
categories.            The Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Financial Control,
Treasury, and Legal and Compliance Departments (collectively, the  Company Control Groups ), which are all independent of the Company s business units, assist senior management and the Firm Risk Committee in monitoring and controlling
the Company s risk through a number of control processes. The Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company s
risk management and monitoring systems and processes.            Each business segment
has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and
procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the Firm Risk Committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement,
monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls.            Each
of the Company s business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively,  Segment Control Groups  and, together  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 with the Company Control Groups, the  Control Groups ) to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. The
Control Groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment s market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal
enforceability, and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Control Groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with
risk elements undergo a thorough review.              Market
Risk.      Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices),
correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio.            The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. Aggregate market risk limits have been
approved for the Company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks
and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.            The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company s trading portfolios on a
regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing Value-at-Risk and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company s trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also use, as appropriate, measures such as
sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors
for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Market Risk Department. The Market Risk Department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the Company s
revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events.              Credit Risk.      Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its financial obligations. The Company incurs
significant,  single name  credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business. This type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis.            The Institutional Credit Department ( Institutional Credit ) manages credit risk
exposure for the Institutional Securities business. Institutional Credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk
concentrations to appropriate senior management.              Concentration
Risk.      The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities, loans or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other
entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries, or issuers engaged in a particular industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and
agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally Japan, United Kingdom, Germany and Brazil), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 4% of the Company s total assets at November 30, 2007. In
addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented approximately 19% of the Company s total assets at November 30, 2007, consist of securities issued by the
U.S. government, federal agencies or other  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments
made in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. In addition, the
Company may originate or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such terms and features
may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value ratios. The Company seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of the systems and procedures described in the preceding discussions of risk
management, market risk and credit risk.              Customer
Activities.      The Company s customer activities involve the execution, settlement and financing of various securities and commodities transactions on behalf of customers. Customer securities activities are
transacted on either a cash or margin basis. Customer commodities activities, which include the execution of customer transactions in commodity futures transactions (including options on futures), are transacted on a margin basis.            The Company s customer activities may expose it to off-balance sheet credit risk. The
Company may have to purchase or sell financial instruments at prevailing market prices in the event of the failure of a customer to settle a trade on its original terms or in the event cash and securities in customer margin accounts are not
sufficient to fully cover customer losses. The Company seeks to control the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulations and Company policies.              Derivative Contracts.      The amounts in the following table
represent the fair value of exchange traded and OTC options and other contracts (including interest rate, foreign exchange, and other forward contracts and swaps). Derivatives included are held for trading and investment, as well as for asset and
liability management. Derivatives are disclosed net of offsetting positions in situations where netting is appropriate. The asset amounts are not reported net of non-cash collateral, which the Company obtains with respect to certain of these
transactions to reduce its exposure to credit losses.            Credit risk with respect
to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the contracts reported as
assets. The Company monitors the creditworthiness of counterparties to these transactions on an ongoing basis and requests additional collateral when deemed necessary.       
     The Company s derivatives (both listed and OTC), net of cash collateral, at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 are summarized in the
table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  7.    Consumer Loans.             Consumer loans, which primarily related to general purpose credit card and consumer installment loans of DFS, were as follows:         
          Activity in the allowance for consumer
loan losses was as follows:         

(1)  
  Amounts included in discontinued operations.     

(2)  
  Amounts relate to the Company s acquisition of Goldfish (see Note 23) and other acquisitions.              At November 30, 2006, $5,570 million of the Company s consumer loans had minimum contractual maturities of less than one year.
Because of the uncertainty regarding consumer loan repayment patterns, which historically had been higher than contractually required minimum payments, this amount may not have necessarily been indicative of the Company s actual consumer loan
repayments.            The Company received net proceeds from consumer loan sales of
$5,301 million in fiscal 2007 through the date of the Discover Spin-off. The Company received net proceeds from consumer loan sales of $11,532 million and $10,525 million in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.            The Company s U.S. consumer loan portfolio as of November 30, 2006, including
securitized loans, was geographically diverse, with a distribution approximating that of the population of the U.S.            At November 30, 2006, $2.3 billion of the Company s consumer loans were classified as held for sale. On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the Discover
Spin-off (see Note 22 for further information).              Credit Card
Securitization Activities.      The Company s retained interests in Discover s credit card asset securitizations included undivided seller s interests, accrued interest receivable on securitized credit card

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 receivables, cash collateral accounts, servicing rights, rights to any excess cash flows ( Residual Interests ) remaining after payments to
investors in the securitization trusts of their contractual rate of return and reimbursement of credit losses, and other retained interests. The undivided seller s interests less an applicable allowance for loan losses were recorded in Consumer
loans. The Company s undivided seller s interests rank  pari passu  with investors  interests in the securitization trusts, and the remaining retained interests were subordinate to investors  interests. Accrued interest
receivable and certain other subordinated retained interests were recorded in Other assets at amounts that approximated fair value. The Company received annual servicing fees of 2% of the investor principal balance outstanding. The Company did not
recognize servicing assets or servicing liabilities for servicing rights as the servicing contracts provided just adequate compensation, as defined in SFAS No. 140 to the Company for performing the servicing. Residual Interests and cash
collateral accounts were recorded in Other assets and reflected at fair value. The retained interests were subject to credit, payment and interest rate risks on the transferred credit card assets. The investors and the securitization trusts had no
recourse to the Company s other assets for failure of cardmembers to pay when due.            The uncollected balances of securitized general purpose credit card loans were $26.7 billion at November 30, 2006.            The Company no longer has retained interests in Discover s credit card asset securitizations after the completion of the Discover Spin-off on June 30, 2007.
            
  8.    Other Investments.             Other investments of $4,524 million and $3,232 million as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively, primarily include investments in unconsolidated investees that are accounted for under the equity method of
accounting (see Note 9).            Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the
Company purchased certain debt securities that were classified as  securities available for sale  in accordance with SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS No.
115 ). During fiscal 2007, $4.3 billion of securities available for sale were sold for a loss of $74 million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined that it no longer intends to hold the remaining securities in this
portfolio until the fair value of the securities recover to a level that exceeds their initial cost. Accordingly, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions-trading revenues in the
consolidated statement of income on these securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified $8.1 billion to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective November 30, 2007. This
other-than-temporary impairment charge represented all unrealized losses for these securities.             
  9.    Investments in Unconsolidated Investees.             The Company invests in unconsolidated investees that own synthetic fuel production plants and in certain structured transactions not integral to the operations of the Company. The Company accounts for these
investments under the equity method of accounting.            Losses from these
investments were $47 million, $40 million and $311 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.              Synthetic Fuel Production Plants.      The Company s share of the operating losses generated by these investments is recorded within
(Losses) gains from unconsolidated investees, and the tax credits and the tax benefits associated with these operating losses are recorded within the Provision for income taxes.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below provides information regarding the losses from unconsolidated investees, tax credits and tax benefits
on the losses:         
          Synthetic fuels tax credits were
granted under Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code. Synthetic fuels tax credits were available in full only when the price of oil was less than a base price specified by the tax code, as adjusted for inflation ( Base Price ). The
Base Price for each calendar year is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury by April 1 of the following year. If the annual average price of a barrel of oil in 2007 exceeds the applicable Base Price, the synthetic fuels tax credits
generated by the Company s synthetic fuel facilities will be phased out, on a ratable basis, over the phase-out range. Synthetic fuels tax credits realized in prior years are not affected by this limitation. Based on fiscal year to date and
futures prices at November 30, 2007, the Company estimates that there will be a partial phase-out of tax credits earned in fiscal 2007. The impact of this anticipated partial phase-out is included within (Losses) gains from unconsolidated
investees and the Provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. Under current tax law, the Section 45K synthetic fuels tax credits expired on December 31, 2007.            The Company had entered into derivative contracts designed to reduce its exposure to rising
oil prices and the potential phase-out of the synthetic fuels tax credits. Changes in fair value relative to these derivative contracts are included within Principal transactions trading revenues.              Structured Transactions.      Gains from unconsolidated
investees associated with investments in certain structured investments were $93 million in fiscal 2007 and $185 million in fiscal 2006.             
  10.    Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.             The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS No. 142 ), as of December 1, 2006 and
December 1, 2005. During the quarter ended August 31, 2007, the Company changed the date of its annual goodwill impairment testing to June 1 in order to move the impairment testing outside of the Company s normal year-end
reporting process to a date when resources are less constrained. The Company believes that the resulting change in accounting principle related to the annual testing date will not delay, accelerate or avoid an impairment charge. Goodwill impairment
tests performed as of June 1, 2007 and December 1, 2006 and December 1, 2005 concluded that no impairment charges were required as of those dates. The Company determined that the change in accounting principle related to the annual
testing date is preferable under the circumstances and does not result in adjustments to the Company s financial statements when applied retrospectively. Additionally, due to the deterioration in the Company s subprime-related activities,
the Company performed an interim impairment test of goodwill subsequent to its annual testing date of June 1, which did not result in an impairment.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Changes in the carrying amount of the Company s goodwill and intangible assets for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006
were as follows:         

(1)  
  Institutional Securities activity primarily represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s acquisition of TransMontaigne Inc., Heidmar
Group and Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited (formerly Nan Tung Bank Ltd. Zhuhai). Discover activity represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s acquisition of Goldfish and other
acquisitions (see Note 23).     

(2)  
  Institutional Securities activity primarily represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s joint venture with JM Financial and the
Company s acquisitions of Saxon Capital, Inc. and CityMortgage Bank. Asset Management activity primarily represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s acquisition of FrontPoint Partners (see
Note 23).     

(3)  
  Global Wealth Management Group activity primarily represents goodwill disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of Quilter. Discover activity represents goodwill and
intangible assets disposed of in connection with the Discover Spin-off (see Note 22).     

(4)  
  Effective December 1, 2006, mortgage servicing rights have been included in net intangible assets. During fiscal 2006 amounts were reclassified to conform with the current
presentation. See Note 5 for further information on the Company s mortgage servicing rights.     

(5)  
  Amortization expense for Discover is included in discontinued operations.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Amortizable intangible assets were as follows:         
          Amortization expense associated with
intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $49 million per year over the next five fiscal years.             
  11.    Deposits.             Deposits
were as follows:         

(1)  
  Certain consumer certificate accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).              The weighted average interest rates of interest-bearing deposits outstanding during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were 3.6% and 4.4%,
respectively.            At November 30, 2007, interest-bearing deposits maturing
over the next five years were as follows:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  12.    Commercial Paper and Other Short-Term Borrowings.             The table below summarizes certain information regarding commercial paper and other short-term borrowings for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:       

(1)  
  These borrowings included bank loans, Federal Funds and bank notes.     

(2)  
  Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 3 for additional information.              The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support
general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and British pound, all of which exist
with the Company as the sole borrower. Under this combined facility (the  Credit Facility ), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.6 billion under the U.S. dollar tranche, 80 billion Japanese yen under the Japanese yen tranche and
$3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. The Credit Facility expires on April 16, 2008 and includes a term-out feature that allows the Company, at its option, to extend borrowings under the Credit Facility for an
additional one year beyond the expiration date. At November 30, 2007, the Company had a $13.8 billion consolidated stockholders  equity surplus as compared with the Credit Facility s covenant requirement.            The Company anticipates that it may utilize the Credit Facility for short-term funding from
time to time. The Company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its Credit Facility will impair the ability to obtain funding under the Credit Facility, pay its current level of dividends, or obtain loan arrangements, letters of
credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. At November 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.            The Company also maintains a committed bilateral credit facility to support general liquidity needs. This facility is expected to be drawn from time to time to cover
short-term funding needs.            In addition, the Company, through several of its
subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured
product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  13.    Long-Term Borrowings.               Maturities and Terms.      Long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end consisted of the following:         

(1)  
  Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar interest rates.     

(2)  
  U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ) and Federal
Funds rates. Non-U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based primarily on Euribor floating rates.     

(3)  
  Amounts include borrowings that are equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index.     

(4)  
  Amounts include an increase of approximately $164 million at November 30, 2007 and a decrease of approximately $326 million at November 30, 2006 to the carrying amount of
certain of the Company s long-term borrowings associated with fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133.              The Company s long-term borrowings included the following components:         
          Senior debt securities often are
denominated in various non-U.S. dollar currencies and may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index (e.g., the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to
be callable by the Company or extendible at the option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put or extend the notes aggregated $6,736 million at November 30, 2007 and $16,016
million at November 30, 2006. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures typically are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.              Senior Debt Structured Borrowings.      The
Company s index-linked, equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index (e.g., Standard   Poor s 500), a
basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying index, equity,  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 credit or other position, the Company has entered into various swap contracts and purchased options that effectively convert the borrowing costs into
floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks, or specific equity securities, credit or other position or
index. The Company accounts for these structured borrowings containing embedded derivatives which, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, were bifurcated from the hybrid notes and accounted for at fair value. Effective December 1, 2006,
the Company applied the fair value election in certain cases to these hybrid notes. The swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are derivatives, and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related
to the notes and economic hedges are reported in Principal transactions trading revenues.              Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated Debentures   .     Included in the Company s long-term borrowings are subordinated notes (including the Series F notes issued by
MS Co. discussed below) of $4,015 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.77% at November 30, 2007 and $3,881 million having a weighted average coupon of 4.77% at November 30, 2006. Junior subordinated debentures
outstanding by the Company were $4,876 million at November 30, 2007 and $4,884 million at November 30, 2006 having a contractual weighted average coupon of 6.37% at November 30, 2007 and 6.51% at November 30, 2006. Maturities of
the subordinated and junior subordinated notes range from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2046. Maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2067 at the Company s option.            At November 30, 2007, MS Co. had a $25 million 7.82% fixed rate subordinated Series
F note outstanding. The note matures in fiscal 2016. The terms of the note contain restrictive covenants that require, among other things, MS Co. to maintain specified levels of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as defined
therein. As of November 30, 2007, MS Co. was in compliance with these restrictive covenants.              Asset and Liability Management.      In general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of
short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the
duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These swaps effectively convert certain of the Company s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition,
for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The Company s use of swaps for
asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows:         

(1)  
  Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are non-U.S. dollar interest rates.              Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through December 31, 2007, the Company s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by
approximately $10 billion. In addition, the Company sold Equity Units to a wholly-owned subsidiary of China Investment Corporation Ltd. ( CIC ) for approximately $5,579 million.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  14.    Capital Units.             The
Company had Capital Units outstanding that were issued by the Company and Morgan Stanley Finance plc ( MSF ), a U.K. subsidiary. A Capital Unit consisted of (a) a Subordinated Debenture of MSF guaranteed by the Company and maturing in
2017 and (b) a related Purchase Contract issued by the Company, which may have been accelerated by the Company, requiring the holder to purchase one Depositary Share representing shares of the Company s Cumulative Preferred Stock. The
aggregate amount of Capital Units outstanding was $66 million at November 30, 2006.            The Company redeemed all $66 million of the outstanding Capital Units on February 28, 2007.             
  15.    Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.               Commitments.              The Company s
commitments as of November 30, 2007 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  This amount primarily represents the Company s outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company s
counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to satisfy various collateral and margin requirements.     

(2)  
  This amount represents commitments associated with the Company s real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.

(3)  
  The Company s investment grade and non-investment grade primary lending commitments are made in connection with corporate lending and other business activities. Credit ratings
for commitments are determined by the Company s Institutional Credit Department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. Obligor credit ratings of BB+ or lower are considered non-investment
grade.     

(4)  
  The Company records these commitments at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statement of financial
condition (see Note 3).     

(5)  
  This amount represents commitments associated with the Company s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(6)  
  This amount represents lending commitments extended by the Company to companies that are secured by real estate assets of the borrower. Loans made under these arrangements typically
are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower. This amount also includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $1,246 million, which have maturities of less
than four years.     

(7)  
  These amounts represent the Company s forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans, residential mortgage loan commitments to individuals and residential home equity
lines of credit.     

(8)  
  This amount includes commercial loan commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company s Global
Wealth Management Group business.              At November 30, 2007, the
Company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $107 billion and $26 billion, respectively.             Premises and Equipment.     The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering premises and equipment. At November 30, 2007, future
minimum rental commitments under such leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows (dollars in millions):         
          The total of minimum rentals to be
received in the future under non-cancelable subleases as of November 30, 2007 was $96 million.            Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense,
net of sublease rental income, was $604 million, $470 million and $571 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The net rent expense for fiscal 2005 included $105 million related to the lease adjustment charge recorded in
the first quarter of fiscal 2005 (see Note 26).            In connection with its
commodities business, the Company enters into operating leases for both crude oil and refined products storage and for vessel charters. These operating leases are integral parts of the Company s commodities risk management business. At
November 30, 2007, future minimum rental commitments under such leases were as follows (dollars in millions):         
            Guarantees.     
        The Company has certain obligations under certain guarantee arrangements, including
contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index or the occurrence or non-occurrence
of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s
failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The Company s use of guarantees is described below by type of guarantee:             Derivative Contracts.     Certain derivative contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including
certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps. Although the Company s derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity
security, the Company has disclosed information regarding all derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and
written foreign currency options, cannot be estimated, as increases in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments
that the Company could be required to make under certain derivative contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed.            The Company records all derivative contracts at fair value. For this reason, the Company does not monitor its risk exposure to such derivative contracts based on
derivative notional amounts; rather, the Company manages its risk exposure on a fair value basis. Aggregate market risk limits have been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also manages its
exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts
generally overstate its exposure.             Standby Letters of Credit and other
Financial Guarantees.     In connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate activities, the Company provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements
represent obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation.       
      Market Value Guarantees.     Market value guarantees are issued to guarantee return of principal invested to fund investors
associated with certain European equity funds and to guarantee timely payment of a specified return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. The guarantees associated with certain European equity funds are designed to provide for
any shortfall between the market value of the underlying fund assets and invested principal and a stipulated return amount. The guarantees provided to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds are designed to return an investor s
contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund.             Liquidity Facilities.  The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain
payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Company acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone municipal bonds in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the holders of the
individual bonds have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Company on specified dates at a specified price. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under
such liquidity facilities as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below summarizes certain information regarding these guarantees at November 30, 2007:         

(1)  
  Approximately $14 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments  table above in the investment grade and non-investment grade primary and
secondary lending commitments and in the letters of credit issued by subsidiaries that are guaranteed by the Company.               Trust Preferred Securities.     The Company has established Morgan Stanley Trusts for the limited purpose of issuing trust preferred
securities to third parties and lending the proceeds to the Company in exchange for junior subordinated debentures. The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that the
Company has made payments to a Morgan Stanley Trust on the junior subordinated debentures. In the event that the Company does not make payments to a Morgan Stanley Trust, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to rely
upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The Company has not recorded any liability in the consolidated financial statements for these guarantees and believes that the occurrence of any events (i.e., nonperformance on the part of the paying
agent) that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote. See Note 13 for details on the Company s junior subordinated debentures.             Indemnities.     In the normal course of its business, the Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent
exposures and taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments
could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the
occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated
financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.             Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees.     The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and
clear securities and/or futures contracts. Associated with its membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to the exchange or the
clearinghouse. While the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company s guarantee obligations would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its resources. In addition,
any such guarantee obligation would be apportioned among the other non-defaulting members of the exchange or clearinghouse. Any potential contingent liability under these membership agreements cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any
contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    General Partner Guarantees.     As a general partner in certain private equity and real
estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited
partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make
under these provisions at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 was $472 million and $320 million, respectively. As of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, the Company s accrued liability for distributions that
the Company has determined is probable it will be required to refund based on the applicable refund criteria specified in the various partnership agreements was $20 million and $25 million, respectively.             Securitized Asset
Guarantees.     As part of the Company s Institutional Securities securitization activities, the Company provides representations and warranties that certain securitized assets conform to specified guidelines. The Company
may be required to repurchase such assets or indemnify the purchaser against losses if the assets do not meet certain conforming guidelines. Due diligence is performed by the Company to ensure that asset guideline qualifications are met, and, to the
extent the Company has acquired such assets to be securitized from other parties, the Company seeks to obtain its own representations and warranties regarding the assets. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required
to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of all assets subject to such securitization activities. Also, in connection with originations of residential mortgage loans under the Company s FlexSource      program, the Company may permit borrowers to pledge marketable securities as collateral instead of requiring cash down payments for the purchase of the underlying residential property. Upon sale of the residential
mortgage loans, the Company may provide a surety bond that reimburses the purchasers for shortfalls in the borrowers  securities accounts up to certain limits if the collateral maintained in the securities accounts (along with the associated
real estate collateral) is insufficient to cover losses that purchasers experience as a result of defaults by borrowers on the underlying residential mortgage loans. The Company requires the borrowers to meet daily collateral calls to ensure the
marketable securities pledged in lieu of a cash down payment are sufficient. At November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, the maximum potential amount of future payments the Company may be required to make under its surety bond was $122
million and $121 million, respectively. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these representations and warranties and reimbursement agreements and believes that the probability of any
payments under these arrangements is remote.             Other.     The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the
regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the
event the acquirer s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover the time frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The
maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make cannot be estimated. The Company believes the likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of the Company s
due diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.            In the
ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These
guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the
Company s consolidated financial statements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Contingencies.               Legal.     In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in
various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for
substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.            The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and
proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            The Company
contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or
where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or
what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such pending matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of such matters could be material to the Company s operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other
things, the level of the Company s revenues or income for such period. Legal reserves have been established in accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  ( SFAS No. 5 ). Once established, reserves
are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.             Coleman Litigation.         In May 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ( CPH ) filed a complaint against Morgan Stanley in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth
Judicial Circuit for Palm Beach County, Florida relating to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. and Sunbeam, Inc. In June 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which included
prejudgment interest and excluded certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others. In June 2005, Morgan Stanley filed a notice of appeal with the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the
 Court of Appeal ) and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal.            In March 2007, the Court of Appeal issued an opinion reversing the trial court s award for compensatory and punitive damages and remanding
the matter to the trial court for entry of judgment for Morgan Stanley. In June 2007, the Court of Appeal s opinion became final when the Court of Appeal issued an order denying CPH s motions for rehearing, rehearing  en banc  and for
certification of certain questions for review by the Florida Supreme Court (the  Supreme Court ). In June 2007, the trial court issued an order cancelling the supersedeas bond that Morgan Stanley had posted. In July 2007, CPH filed a
petition with the Supreme Court asking that court to review the Court of Appeal s decision ( Petition for Review ). On December 12, 2007, the Supreme Court issued an order denying CPH s Petition for Review.      The Company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that the Supreme Court s decision to deny the Petition for Review has effectively ended CPH s
civil claim against the Company. Effective November 30, 2007, the Company reversed the $360 million reserve previously established for the Coleman litigation under SFAS No. 5.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  16.    Shareholders  Equity.               Common Stock.      Changes in shares of common stock outstanding for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were as follows (share data in millions):         
            Treasury
Shares.      During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased $3.8 billion of its common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $72.65 per share. During fiscal 2006, the Company purchased $3.4 billion of its
common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $65.43 per share. In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock.
This share repurchase authorization considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.3 billion remaining
under its current share repurchase authorization.              Rabbi
Trusts.      The Company has established rabbi trusts (the  Rabbi Trusts ) to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding restricted stock units. The number of shares of common
stock outstanding in the Rabbi Trusts was approximately 107 million at November 30, 2007 and approximately 81 million at November 30, 2006. The assets of the Rabbi Trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value
of the Company s stock held in the Rabbi Trusts is classified in Shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.              Preferred Stock   .     In July 2006, the Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an
aggregate of $1,100 million. Each Depositary Share represents 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value ( Series A Preferred Stock ). The Series A Preferred Stock is
redeemable at the Company s option, in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference over the
Company s common stock upon liquidation. Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $379.66 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2008 to preferred shareholders of record on
December 31, 2007.              Regulatory Requirements.      On April 1, 2007, the Company merged MSDWI into MS Co. Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS Co., became the Company s principal U.S.
broker-dealer. MS Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS Co. has consistently operated in excess of these requirements. MS Co. s net capital totaled $6,673 million at November 30, 2007, which exceeded the
amount required by $4,950 million. MSIP, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSJS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of
the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSJS consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) and
other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets
( Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). At November 30, 2007, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital
ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company s FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.            Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the
regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.            Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. ( MSDP ) and Cournot Financial Products LLC ( Cournot ), which are triple-A
rated derivative products subsidiaries, maintain certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. Both entities are operated such that creditors of the Company should not expect to have any claims on either the
assets of Cournot or the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations of such entity to its own creditors are satisfied in full. Creditors of Cournot or MSDP, respectively, should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any
of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of Cournot or MSDP.            The
Company is a consolidated supervised entity ( CSE ) as defined by the SEC. As such, the Company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. As of November
2007, the Company was in compliance with the CSE capital requirements.            MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS Co. is also required to
notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 30, 2007, MS Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.            The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in
various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may restrict the Company s ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At November 30, 2007, approximately $14.2 billion of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be
restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances to the Company.              Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).      As of November 30, 2007, the components of the Company s Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:         
           Cumulative Foreign Currency
Translation Adjustments.     Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts and designates
certain non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of the Company s net foreign
investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its net
monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. However, under some circumstances, the Company may elect not to hedge its net monetary investments in certain foreign
operations due to market conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information relating to the hedging of the Company s net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries
and their effects on cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments is summarized below:         

At November 30,   

2007   

2006   

(dollars in millions)   

Net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries   
      
  $  
  9,534  

$  
  6,195  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from net investments in subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency

$  
  1,290  

$  
  741  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from realized or unrealized losses on hedges, net of tax   

(1,176  
  )  

(692  
  )   

Total cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax   
      
  $  
  114  

$  
  49  

17.    Earnings per Common Share.             Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive
securities. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS (in millions, except for per share data):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

          The following securities were
considered antidilutive and, therefore, were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS:         
           
  18.    Employee Stock-Based Compensation Plans.             As of December 1, 2004, the Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and
recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures.            The components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations and a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in fiscal 2005 associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123R) are presented below:

The table above excludes stock-based compensation expense included in discontinued operations, which was approximately $17 million, $32
million and $16 million, for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense related to deferred stock and stock options was $722 million,
$737 million and $255 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense included in discontinued operations in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was approximately $6
million, $11 million and $5 million, respectively.            At November 30, 2007,
the Company had approximately $1,376 million of compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards not yet recognized (excluding fiscal 2007 year-end awards granted in December 2007 to nonretirement-eligible employees, which will begin to be
amortized in fiscal 2008). The unrecognized compensation cost relating to unvested stock-based awards expected to vest will primarily be recognized over the next two years.            In connection with awards under its equity-based compensation and benefit plans, the Company is authorized to issue shares of its common
stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. At November 30, 2007, approximately 166 million shares were available for future grant under these plans.            The Company generally uses treasury shares to deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing repurchase authorization that includes
repurchases in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans.            As a result of the Discover Spin-off effective June 30, 2007, all outstanding options to purchase the Company s common stock held by employees of Discover were canceled and replaced with options to purchase
Discover common stock. Outstanding options to purchase Morgan Stanley common stock held by directors and employees who remained with the Company after the Discover Spin-off were adjusted to preserve the intrinsic value of the award immediately prior
to the spin-off using an adjustment ratio based on the Morgan Stanley closing market stock price immediately prior to the spin-off date and the beginning market stock price at the date of the spin-off. Additional compensation cost recognized as a
result of this modification was not material.            Similarly, restricted stock
units awarded pursuant to equity incentive plans and held by employees of Discover were canceled and replaced with restricted units of Discover stock. Outstanding deferred shares held by Morgan Stanley directors and employees who remained with the
Company after the Discover Spin-off were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares by an adjustment ratio in order to account for the impact of the spin-off on the value of the Company s shares at the time the spin-off was completed. No
additional compensation cost was recognized as a result of this modification. Cash paid to the holders of deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares was not material.       
       Deferred Stock Awards.      The Company has made deferred stock awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans.
The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of restricted common stock or in the right to receive unrestricted shares of common stock in the future
( restricted stock units ). Awards under these plans are generally subject to vesting over time contingent upon continued employment and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until the end of a specified period, generally two to
five years from date of grant. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the end of the relevant restriction period. All or a portion of a vested award also may be canceled in certain limited situations,
including termination for cause during the relevant restriction period. Recipients of deferred stock awards generally receive dividend equivalents that are not subject to vesting and have voting rights.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s vested and unvested restricted stock units
(share data in millions):         

(1)  
  For fiscal 2007, the number of restricted stock units was adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover Spin-off.     

(2)  
  Amount includes approximately 1 million awards held by Discover employees that were canceled as a result of the Discover Spin-off.     
          The weighted average price of restricted stock units at the beginning and end of fiscal 2007 was $45.59 (as adjusted to reflect the impact
of the Discover Spin-off) and $51.95, respectively. During fiscal 2007, the weighted average price for granted, converted and canceled restricted stock units was $66.68, $40.22 and $52.24, respectively (adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover
Spin-off). The weighted average price for restricted stock units granted during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was $57.86 and $53.10, respectively (unadjusted for the Discover Spin-off).            The total fair value of restricted stock units converted to common stock during fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was $817 million,
$768 million and $986 million, respectively.            The following table sets forth
activity relating to the Company s unvested restricted stock units (share data in millions):         

(1)  
  The number of shares and weighted average grant date fair value have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover Spin-off based on the adjustment ratio discussed above.

(2)  
  Amount includes approximately 1 million awards held by Discover employees that were canceled due to the Discover Spin-off.     

(3)  
  Unvested restricted stock units represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. Approximately
56 million unvested restricted stock units, with a weighted average grant date fair value of $53.81, were expected to vest at the end of fiscal 2007.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Stock Option Awards.      The Company has granted stock option awards pursuant to
several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of stock options generally having an exercise price not less than the
fair value of the Company s common stock on the date of grant. Such stock option awards generally become exercisable over a three-year period and expire 10 years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon termination of
employment. Stock option awards have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those in deferred stock awards.            The weighted average fair values of the Company s options granted during fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were $18.55 (as adjusted to reflect the impact of
the Discover Spin-off), $14.15 and $12.77 (unadjusted for the Discover Spin-off), respectively, utilizing the following weighted average assumptions:         
          The Company s expected option
life has been determined based upon historical experience. Beginning on December 1, 2006, the expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded options, consistent with the guidance in Staff
Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107,  Share-Based Payment  ( SAB 107 ). Prior to December 1, 2006, the expected stock price volatility was determined based upon the Company s historical stock price data over a
time period similar to the expected option life. The Company believes that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility or a combined method of determining
volatility.            The following table sets forth activity relating to the
Company s stock options (share data in millions):         

(1)  
  For fiscal 2007, the number and weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover Spin-off based on the adjustment ratio discussed above.

(2)  
  Includes approximately 2 million awards held by DFS employees that were canceled due to the Discover Spin-off.     
          The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and
fiscal 2005 was $707 million, $326 million and $722 million, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of November 30, 2007, the intrinsic value of in-the-money exercisable stock options was $826 million.
           The following table presents information relating to the Company s stock
options outstanding at November 30, 2007 (number of options outstanding data in millions):         

(1)  
  The weighted average exercise price has been adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover Spin-off based on the adjustment ratio discussed above.              In November 2007, in connection with its initial public offering, MSCI Inc.,
a majority-owned subsidiary of Morgan Stanley, made a founders  grant in the form of restricted stock units (representing shares of MSCI Inc. common stock) and options to purchase MSCI Inc. common stock (such
awards are not reflected in the above disclosures). The aggregate value of the founders  grant was $68 million of restricted stock units and options, subject to two- to four-year vesting periods.             
  19.    Employee Benefit Plans.             The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees. The Company
also provides certain postemployment benefits other than pension and postretirement benefits to certain former employees or inactive employees prior to retirement.           The Company s defined benefit pension, postretirement and postemployment plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS Nos. 87, 88,
106 and 112. The Company adopted the provision of SFAS No. 158 to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the Company s defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of
financial condition at November 30, 2007. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of $347 million ($208 million after-tax) to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of Shareholders  equity (see Note 2).   
        Prior to its adoption of SFAS No. 158, but after taking into account the effects of
the Discover Spin-off, the Company recognized a final net minimum pension liability of $68 million ($47 million after-tax) at November 30, 2007 and $13 million ($7 million after-tax with recognition of a $1 million intangible asset) at
November 30, 2006 for defined benefit pension plans whose accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
         The following table illustrates the
incremental effect of the application of SFAS No. 158:         
          The Accumulated other comprehensive
loss of $415 million pre-tax was composed of $(74) million in prior-year service credits and $489 million in net actuarial losses. The estimated net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other
comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over fiscal 2008 is approximately $32 million. The estimated prior-service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over fiscal 2008 is
approximately $(8) million for defined benefit pension plans and $(2) million for postretirement plans.              Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.      Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company hired before July 1, 2007 and its U.S. affiliates are covered by a
non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Qualified Plan ). Unfunded supplementary plans (the  Supplemental Plans ) cover certain executives. In
addition, certain of the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries also have pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee s years of credited
service and on compensation levels specified in the plans. The Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. Liabilities for benefits
payable under its Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries. The Company s U.S. Qualified Plan was closed to new participants effective July 1, 2007. In lieu of a defined benefit pension
plan, eligible employees who were first hired, rehired or transferred to a U.S. benefits eligible position will receive a retirement contribution into their 401(k) plan. The amount of the retirement contribution is included in the Company s
401(k) cost and will be equal to between 2% to 5% of eligible pay based on years of service as of December 31.            The Company also has unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and their dependents.            The Company uses a measurement date of September 30 to calculate obligations under its
pension and postretirement plans. The Company expects to early adopt a fiscal year-end measurement date for the fiscal year ending November 30, 2008.            In connection with the Discover Spin-off, the Company transferred assets and liabilities relating to certain current and former DFS employees to a new defined benefit
pension plan established by DFS. The Company remeasured the assets and projected benefit obligation of the separated pension plans as of December 31, 2006. The impact of the remeasurement results on continuing operations for fiscal 2007 was not
material.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present information for the Company s pension and postretirement plans on an aggregate
basis:             Net Periodic Benefit Expense.             The following table presents the components of the net periodic benefit expense:   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Benefit Obligations and Funded Status.             The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006 as well as a summary of the funded status at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006:   

(1)  
  The pension amount related to the Discover Spin-off and the sale of Quilter was $22 million during fiscal 2006. The postretirement amount related to the Discover Spin-off was $2
million during fiscal 2006. These amounts are included in discontinued operations (see Note 22).     

(2)  
  The pension amount related to the Discover Spin-off and the sale of Quilter was $20 million during fiscal 2006. The postretirement amount related to DFS was $1 million during fiscal
2006. These amounts are included in discontinued operations (see Note 22).     

(3)  
  Transfers and divestitures primarily relate to the impact of the Discover Spin-off and non-U.S. subsidiary plans.              The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $2,147 million
and $2,385 million at November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table contains information for pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair
value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end:         
          The following table contains
information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end:         
           Assumptions.             The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations at fiscal year-end:         
          The following table presents the
weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:         
          The expected long-term rate of return
on assets represents the Company s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the
target asset allocations. For plans where there is no established target asset allocation, actual asset allocations were used. The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one
year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents assumed health care cost trend rates used to determine the postretirement benefit
obligations at fiscal year-end:         
          Assumed health care cost trend rates
can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company s postretirement benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:         

One-Percentage Point Increase   
      
   One-Percentage Point (Decrease)   

(dollars in millions)   

Effect on total postretirement service and interest cost   
      
  $  
  3  
      
  $  
  (2  
  )   
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

26  

(21  
  )   
          The Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the  Act ) was enacted in December 2003. For 2008, Morgan Stanley elected not to apply for the Medicare Retiree Drug Subsidy or take any other action related to the Act since Medicare prescription
drug coverage was deemed to have no material effect on the Company s retiree medical program. No impact of the Act has been reflected in the Company s results.       
      U.S. Qualified Plan Assets.             The U.S. Qualified Plan assets represent 90% of the Company s total pension plan assets. The weighted average asset allocations for the U.S. Qualified Plan at
November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 and the targeted asset allocation for fiscal 2008 by asset class were as follows:         
           U.S. Qualified Pension Plan Asset
Allocation .    The Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the asset allocation targets for its U.S. Qualified Plan based on its assessment of business and financial
conditions, demographic and actuarial data, funding characteristics and related risk factors. Other relevant factors, including industry practices and long-term historical and prospective capital market returns, were considered as well. The expected
long-term rate of return on U.S. Qualified Plan assets is 6.75% for fiscal 2007.            The U.S. Qualified Plan return objectives provide long-term measures for monitoring the investment performance against growth in the pension obligations. The overall allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status while
generating sufficiently stable real returns (net of inflation) to help cover current and future benefit payments. Total U.S. Qualified Plan portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual returns with relevant benchmarks, such as the S P
500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, the MSCI EAFE Index and, in the case of the fixed income portfolio, the U.S. Qualified Plan s liability profile.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Both the equity and fixed income portions of the asset allocation use a combination of active and passive investment
strategies and different investment styles. The fixed income asset allocation consists of longer duration fixed income securities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better correlate assets with obligations. The
longer duration fixed income allocation is expected to help maintain the stability of plan contributions over the long run.            The asset mix of the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan is reviewed by the Morgan Stanley Retirement Plan Investment Committee on a regular basis. When asset class
exposure reaches a minimum or maximum level, an asset allocation review process is initiated, and the portfolio is automatically rebalanced back to target allocation levels unless the Investment Committee determines otherwise.            Under the current Investment Committee policy, no more than 10% of the U.S. Qualified Plan
assets can be allocated to non-traditional  alternative  asset classes and only to the extent that those alternatives provide attractive diversification benefits, absolute return enhancement and/or other potential benefit to the plan.
Allocations to alternative asset classes will be made based upon an evaluation of particular attributes and relevant considerations of each asset class.            Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of the plan s policy guidelines and are
consistent with the plan s risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:         

Derivatives may be used only if the vehicle is deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a similar direct investment in the underlying cash market
or if the vehicle is being used to manage risk of the portfolio.            

Derivatives may not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances.            

Derivatives may not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that investment activity is undertaken for
long-term investment rather than short-term trading.            

Derivatives may only be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio when their possible effects can be quantified, shown to enhance the
risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.               As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes percentage allocations and credit
quality. Derivatives will be used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.             Cash Flows.             The Company expects to contribute approximately $115 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans (U.S. and non-U.S.) in fiscal 2008 based upon their current funded status and expected asset return
assumptions for fiscal 2008, as applicable.            Expected benefit payments
associated with the Company s pension and postretirement benefit plans for the next five fiscal years and in aggregate for the five fiscal years thereafter are as follows:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Morgan Stanley 401(k) and Profit Sharing Awards.      Eligible U.S. employees receive
401(k) matching contributions that are invested in the Company s common stock. The retirement contribution granted in lieu of a defined benefit pension plan is included in the Company s 401(k) expense. The Company also provides
discretionary profit sharing to certain Non-U.S. employees. The pre-tax expense associated with the 401(k) match and profit sharing for fiscal 2007 was $128 million and $117 million for both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. The impact of the Discover
Spin-off and Quilter disposal on pre-tax 401(k) match and profit sharing expense in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was approximately $8 million, $15 million and $15 million, respectively. The impact was reflected in discontinued operations
(see Note 22).             Defined Contribution Pension Plans.             The Company maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially
all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements. In fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company s expense related to
these plans was $115 million, $87 million and $71 million, respectively.              Other Postemployment Benefits.      Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation, severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life
insurance coverage provided to former employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. The postemployment benefit obligations were not material as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006.             
  20.    Income Taxes.             The
provision for (benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations consisted of:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table reconciles the provision for (benefit from) income taxes to the U.S. federal statutory income tax
rate:         

(1)  
  The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate includes the impact of a $242 million income tax benefit, or $0.23 per diluted share, related to the resolution of the Internal Revenue Service
(the  IRS ) examination of years 1994-1998. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate includes the impact of a $309 million income tax benefit resulting from repatriation of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004.              As of November 30, 2007, the Company had
approximately $5.8 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no provisions have been recorded for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are
permanently invested abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income taxes payable in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.            The American Jobs Creation Act, adopted on October 22, 2004, provided for a special one-time tax deduction, or dividend received deduction, of 85% of qualifying
foreign earnings that are repatriated in either a company s last tax year that began before the enactment date or the first tax year that begins during the one-year period beginning on the enactment date. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005,
the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $309 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, resulting from the Company s repatriation of approximately $4.0 billion of qualifying foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation
Act. The $309 million tax benefit resulted from the reversal of net deferred tax liabilities previously provided under SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS No. 109 ), net of additional taxes associated
with these qualifying earnings.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax
bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities at
November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 were as follows:         

(1)  
  The valuation allowance reduces the benefit of certain state net operating loss carryforwards to the amount that will more likely than not be realized.              During fiscal 2007, the valuation allowance was increased by $19 million related to the
ability to utilize state net operating losses.            The Company had federal and
state net operating loss carryforwards for which a deferred tax asset of $724 million and zero was recorded as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations and will expire in 2027.
           The Company had tax credit carryforwards for which a related deferred tax
asset of $1,005 million and zero was recorded as of November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization and will expire in 2017.            The Company believes that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset of $5,593
million (after valuation allowance) is more likely than not based on expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.            The Company recorded income tax benefits to Paid-in capital of $280 million, $72 million and $317 million related to employee stock compensation transactions in fiscal
2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. Such benefits were credited to Paid-in capital.               

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Cash paid for income taxes was $3,404 million, $3,115 million and $1,536 million in fiscal 2007,
fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The Company has requested a refund of $1,200 million for estimated taxes paid during fiscal 2007.              Income Tax Examinations.      The Company is under continuous examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in certain countries, such
as Japan and the U.K., and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such as New York. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction; for example, the current IRS examination covers 1999-2005. The Company regularly
assesses the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from these and subsequent years  examinations. The Company has established tax reserves that the Company believes are adequate in relation
to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts tax reserves only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. The Company believes that the resolution of tax
matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the Company s consolidated statement of income for a particular future period and on the
Company s effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.             
  21.    Segment and Geographic Information.             The Company structures its segments primarily based upon the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and the Company s management organization. The Company provides a wide range of
financial products and services to its customers in each of its business segments: Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. For further discussion of the Company s business segments, see Note 1.
           Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are
included in determining their operating results. Other revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon the Company s allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment s
respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.            As
a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income
before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by Asset Management to the Global Wealth Management Group associated with sales
of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group s global representatives.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Selected financial information for the Company s segments is presented below:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  The results of the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2007 included a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in
consolidation. The results of the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company s sale of the aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.

(2)  
  See Note 22 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(3)  
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.     

(4)  
  See Note 2 for a discussion of the cumulative effect of accounting change, net.     

(5)  
  Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company s business segments.              The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company s non-U.S. business activities are principally conducted through
European and Asian locations. The following table presents selected income statement information and the total assets of the Company s operations by geographic area. The net revenues and total assets disclosed in the following table reflect the
regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues and total assets, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:         

Institutional Securities: investment banking client location, equity capital markets client location, debt capital markets revenue recording
location, sales   trading trading desk location.            

Global Wealth Management Group: global representative coverage location.            

Asset Management: client location, except for merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.               
  22.    Discontinued Operations.               Fiscal 2007.                Discover.        On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the Discover Spin-off. The Company distributed all of the outstanding shares of DFS common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to the
Company s stockholders of record as of June 18, 2007. The Company s stockholders received one share of DFS common stock for every two shares of the Company s common stock. Stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares
for amounts less than one full DFS share. The Company received a tax ruling from the IRS that, based on customary representations and qualifications, the distribution was tax-free to the Company s stockholders for U.S. federal income tax
purposes.            The Discover Spin-off allows the Company to focus its efforts on
more closely aligned firm-wide strategic priorities within its Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments.         
  The results of DFS prior to the Discover Spin-off are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities associated with DFS as of November 30, 2006 (dollars in
millions):         
          The net assets that were distributed
to shareholders on the date of the Discover Spin-off were $5,558 million, which was recorded as a reduction to the Company s retained earnings.            Net revenues included in discontinued operations related to DFS were $2,392 million, $4,290 million and $3,452 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005,
respectively.            The results of discontinued operations include interest expense
that was allocated based upon borrowings that were specifically attributable to DFS  operations through intercompany transactions existing prior to the Discover Spin-off. For fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the amount of interest
expense reclassified to discontinued operations was approximately $159 million, $247 million and $145 million, respectively.              Quilter.      On February 28, 2007, the Company sold Quilter, its standalone U.K. mass affluent business, which was formerly included
within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The results of Quilter are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 also included a pre-tax gain of $168
million ($109 million after-tax) on disposition.              Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal
2005.                Aircraft Leasing.      On
August 17, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved management s recommendation to sell the Company s non-core aircraft leasing business. In connection with this action, the aircraft leasing business was
classified as  held for sale  and reported as discontinued operations in the Company s consolidated financial statements. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $1.7 billion
($1.0 billion after-tax) to reflect the writedown of the aircraft  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 leasing business to its estimated fair value of approximately $2.0 billion. In determining the charge that was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005,
the Company estimated the value to be realized in selling the aircraft leasing business as a whole. The estimated value of the business was based on the appraised values of the aircraft portfolio, an evaluation of then current market conditions,
recent transactions involving the sales of similar aircraft leasing businesses, a detailed assessment of the portfolio and additional valuation analyses.            On January 30, 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement under which it would sell its aircraft leasing business to Terra Firma, a
European private equity group, for approximately $2.5 billion in cash and the assumption of liabilities. Based on the terms of the agreement and in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets  ( SFAS No. 144 ), the Company revised its estimate of the fair value (less selling costs) of the aircraft leasing business and, as a result, in the fourth quarter, reduced the pre-tax charge recorded in the third quarter
of fiscal 2005 by approximately $1.1 billion. Full year results for fiscal 2005 reflected a charge of $509 million ($316 million after-tax).            The sale was completed on March 24, 2006. The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 included a loss of $125 million ($75 million after-tax) related to
the impact of the finalization of the sales proceeds and balance sheet adjustments related to the closing. Gross revenues from the aircraft leasing business included in discontinued operations was $137 million and $417 million in fiscal 2006 and
fiscal 2005, respectively.              Summarized financial information for the
Company s discontinued operations for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:              The table below provides information regarding amounts included within discontinued operations (dollars in millions):         
           
  23.    Business and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions and Sale of Minority Interest.               Subsequent to Fiscal 2007.                Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U.      On January 28, 2008, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. ( MSWM ), its Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of fiscal 2008 subject to customary closing conditions,
including regulatory approvals. The results of MSWM have been included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.              Fiscal 2007.                MSCI.      On July 31, 2007, the Company announced that it would sell a minority interest in its subsidiary, MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) in an initial public offering
( IPO ). MSCI is a provider of investment decision support tools to investment institutions worldwide. MSCI is included within the Institutional Securities business segment. In November 2007, MSCI completed its IPO of 16.1 million
shares and received net proceeds of approximately $265 million, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. As the IPO was part of a  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 broader corporate reorganization, contemplated by the Company at the IPO date, the increase in the carrying amount of the Company s investment in
MSCI was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition and the Company s consolidated statement of changes in shareholders  equity at November 30, 2007. Subsequent
to the IPO, the Company maintains approximately 81% ownership of MSCI and consolidates MSCI for financial reporting purposes.              JM Financial.      In October 2007, the Company dissolved its India joint ventures with JM Financial. The Company purchased the joint
venture s institutional equities sales, trading and research platform by acquiring JM Financial s 49% interest and sold the Company s 49% interest in the joint venture s investment banking, fixed income and retail operation to JM
Financial.              CityMortgage Bank.      On
December 21, 2006, the Company acquired CityMortgage Bank ( CityMortgage ), a Moscow-based mortgage bank that specializes in originating, servicing and securitizing residential mortgage loans in the Russian Federation. Since the
acquisition date, the results of CityMortgage have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.              Olco Petroleum Group Inc.      On December 15, 2006, the Company acquired a 60% equity stake in Olco Petroleum Group Inc.
( Olco ), a petroleum products marketer and distributor based in eastern Canada. Since the acquisition date, the results of Olco have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.              Saxon Capital, Inc.      On December 4, 2006, the
Company acquired Saxon Capital, Inc. ( Saxon ), a servicer and originator of residential mortgages. Since the acquisition date, the results of Saxon have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.              FrontPoint Partners.      On December 4, 2006, the
Company acquired FrontPoint Partners ( FrontPoint ), a provider of absolute return investment strategies. Since the acquisition date, the results of FrontPoint have been included within the Asset Management business segment.              Fiscal 2006.                Goldfish   .     On February 17, 2006, the Company acquired the Goldfish credit card business in
the U.K. As a result of the Discover Spin-off, the results of Goldfish have been included within discontinued operations (see Note 22). The acquisition price was $1,676 million, which was paid in cash in February 2006. The Company recorded goodwill
and other intangible assets of approximately $370 million in connection with the acquisition.            The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition:         
          The $123 million of acquired
amortizable intangible assets includes customer relationships of $54 million (15-year estimated useful life) and trademarks of $69 million (25-year estimated useful life).       

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Lansdowne Partners.      On November 1, 2006, the Company acquired a 19% stake
in Lansdowne Partners ( Lansdowne ), a London-based investment manager. The investment in Lansdowne is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.              Avenue Capital Group.      On October 30, 2006, the
Company formed a strategic alliance with Avenue Capital Group ( Avenue ), a New York-based investment manager with approximately $12 billion in assets under management. The Company acquired a minority interest in Avenue. The investment in
Avenue is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.              Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited.      On September 29, 2006, the Company acquired Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited ( China Bank )
(formerly Nan Tung Bank Ltd. Zhuhai), a bank in the People s Republic of China. The acquisition enabled the Company to strengthen its platform in China. Since the acquisition date, the results of China Bank have been included within the
Institutional Securities business segment.              TransMontaigne
Inc.      On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries ( TransMontaigne ), a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution
business. The acquisition enabled the Company to expand its supply and distribution of oil and refined oil products across a broader range of clients and regions across the U.S., as well as increase its oil storage capacity across the U.S. Since the
acquisition date, the results of TransMontaigne and its subsidiaries have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.              Heidmar Group.      On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired the Heidmar Group of companies that provides international shipping
and U.S. marine logistics services. The acquisition enabled the Company to expand its physical freight business across multiple vessel classes and geographies and provided an opportunity to expand into international shipping and services. Since the
acquisition date, the results of the Heidmar Group of companies have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.              Office Building.      On June 19, 2006, the Company purchased a majority interest in a joint venture that indirectly owned title to
522 Fifth Avenue, a 23-floor office building in New York City (the  Building ), for approximately $420 million. On July 10, 2007, the Company purchased the balance of the interest in the joint venture for approximately
$37 million.            The pro forma impact of each of the above business
acquisitions individually and in the aggregate was not material to the consolidated financial statements.             
  24.    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108.             In September 2006, the SEC released SAB 108. SAB 108 permits the Company to adjust for the cumulative effect of errors relating to prior years in the carrying amount of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of
the 2006 fiscal year, with an offsetting adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. SAB 108 also requires the adjustment of any prior quarterly financial statements within the fiscal year of adoption
for the effects of such errors on the quarters when the information is next presented. Such adjustments do not require previously filed reports with the SEC to be amended. Effective August 31, 2006, the Company elected early application
of SAB 108. In accordance with SAB 108, the Company adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for the items described below. The Company considers these
adjustments to be immaterial to prior annual periods.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Trust Preferred Securities.      The Company adjusted its opening retained earnings
for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 to reflect a change in its hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The change is being made following a clarification by the SEC of its interpretation of SFAS
No. 133 related to the accounting for fair value hedges of fixed-rate trust preferred securities.            Since January 2005, the Company entered into various interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in its trust preferred securities. The terms of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding trust
preferred securities mirrored one another, and the Company determined in the past that the changes in the fair value of the swaps and hedged instruments were the same. The Company applied the commonly used  short-cut method  in accounting
for these fair value hedges and, therefore, did not reflect any gains or losses during the relevant periods. Based upon the SEC s clarification of SFAS No. 133, the Company determined that since it has the ability at its election to defer
interest payments on its trust preferred securities, these swaps did not qualify for the short-cut method. These swaps performed as expected as effective economic hedges of interest rate risk. The Company ended hedging of the interest rate risk on
these trust preferred securities effective August 2006 and adjusted its financial results as if hedge accounting was never applied. The Company currently manages the interest rate risk on these securities as part of its overall asset liability
management.              Compensation and
Benefits.      The Company also adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for two compensation and benefits accruals. Such accruals are
related to (i) the overaccrual of certain payroll taxes in certain non-U.S. locations, primarily in the U.K., which arose in fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2006 and (ii) an adjustment to the amortization expense associated with stock-based
compensation awards, which arose in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004.              Impact
of Adjustments.      The impact of each of the items noted above on fiscal 2006 opening Shareholders  equity and Retained earnings and on Net income for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2006 is presented below
(dollars in millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The aggregate impact of these adjustments is summarized below (dollars in millions, except per share data):

25.    Insurance Settlement.             On September 11, 2001, the U.S. experienced terrorist attacks targeted against New York City and Washington, D.C. The attacks in New York resulted in the destruction of the World Trade Center complex, where approximately 3,700 of the
Company s employees were located, and the temporary closing of the debt and equity financial markets in the U.S. Through the implementation of its business recovery plans, the Company relocated its displaced employees to other facilities.
           In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company settled its claim with its
insurance carriers related to the events of September 11, 2001. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $251 million as the insurance recovery was in excess of previously recognized costs related to the terrorist attacks (primarily write-offs of
leasehold improvements and destroyed technology and telecommunications equipment in the World Trade Center complex, employee relocation and certain other employee-related expenditures).            The pre-tax gain was recorded as a reduction to non-interest expenses and is included within the Global Wealth Management Group ($198
million), Asset Management ($43 million) and Institutional Securities ($10 million) business segments. The insurance settlement was allocated to the respective segments in accordance with the relative damages sustained by each segment.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  26.    Lease Adjustment.             Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company did not record the effects of scheduled rent increases and rent-free periods for certain real estate leases on a straight-line basis. In addition, the Company had been accounting for
certain tenant improvement allowances as reductions to the related leasehold improvements instead of recording funds received as deferred rent and amortizing them as reductions to lease expense over the lease term. In the first quarter of fiscal
2005, the Company changed its method of accounting for these rent escalation clauses, rent-free periods and tenant improvement allowances to properly reflect lease expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. The impact of this correction
resulted in the Company recording $105 million of additional rent expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The impact of this change was included within non-interest expenses and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional
Securities ($71 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($29 million) and Asset Management ($5 million) business segments. The impact of this correction was not material to the pre-tax income of each of the segments or to the Company.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    
  27.    Quarterly Results (unaudited).          

(1)  
  Results for the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 included $9.4 billion in mortgage-related writedowns.     

(2)  
  Results for the Company for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 were adjusted (see Note 24).     

(3)  
  See Note 22 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(4)  
  Summation of the quarters  earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share equivalents throughout the
year.               
  28.    Subsequent Event.              China Investment Corporation Investment.             In December 2007,
the Company sold Equity Units which include contracts to purchase Company common stock (see  Stock Purchase Contracts  herein) to a wholly owned subsidiary of the CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC s ownership in the
Company s common stock, including the maximum number of shares of common stock to be received by CIC upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the Company s total shares outstanding based on the total shares
outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC will be a  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 passive financial investor and will have no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment
proceeds will be treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.            Each stock purchase contract mandatorily settles in Company common stock at prices between $48.0700 and $57.6840. The maximum number of shares to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts included in the Equity Units is
approximately 116,063,000. The stock purchase contracts settle for Company common stock on August 17, 2010, subject to adjustment. Each Equity Unit will pay a fixed annual payment rate of 9% payable quarterly.            As described below, the Equity Units consist of interests in trust preferred securities
issued by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A ( Series A Trust ), Morgan Stanley Capital Trust B ( Series B Trust ) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C ( Series C Trust ) (each a  Morgan Stanley Trust  and,
collectively, the  Trusts ) and stock purchase contracts issued by the Company. The only assets held by the Series A Trust, Series B Trust and Series C Trust are junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company.              Equity Units.              Each Equity Unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of:         

(i)  
  an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Series A Trust, Series B Trust or Series C Trust with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and

(ii)  
  a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company.               Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Trust Preferred Securities.             In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities
due no later than February 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the
Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to SFAS No. 159. The common and trust preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership
interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A Trust,
Series B Trust and Series C Trust will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%.            The trust common securities, which are held by the Company, represent an interest in the Trusts and are recorded as an equity method investment in the Company s
consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts are VIEs in accordance with FIN 46R and the Company does not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as it is not the primary beneficiary of any of the Trusts.            The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the
holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. If the Company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a Morgan Stanley Trust, such Morgan Stanley Trust will not be able to pay any amounts
payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. In that event, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to rely upon the guarantee for
payment of those amounts. The guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities is paid, the amounts payable with respect to the trust preferred  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 securities upon liquidation of the Morgan Stanley Trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust
preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the Equity Unit holders are pledged to the Company to collateralize the obligations of the Equity Unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The Equity Unit holders may
substitute certain zero-coupon treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts.             Stock Purchase Contracts.             Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the
Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate. The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will be calculated based on the arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average prices of the common
stock during a specified 20-day period ending three days immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date ( applicable market value ). If the applicable market value of the Company s common stock is less than the threshold
appreciation price of $57.6840 but greater than $48.0700, the reference price, the settlement rate will be a number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the applicable market value. If the applicable market value
is less than or equal to the reference price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the reference price. If the applicable market value is greater than or equal to the
threshold appreciation price, the settlement rate will be the number of shares of the Company s common stock equal to $1,000 divided by the threshold appreciation price. Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Company will receive
proceeds of approximately $5,579 million and issue up to approximately 116,063,000 shares of its common stock. The stock purchase contract may be settled early at the option of the holder at any time prior to the second business day immediately
preceding the beginning of the first remarketing period. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the minimum settlement rate, subject to adjustment.            The initial quarterly distributions on the Series A, Series B and Series C trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract
adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts of 3%, result in the 9% yield on the Equity Units.            If the Company defers any of the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 9% until paid, to the extent
permitted by law.            The present value of the future contract adjustment payments
due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400 million and was recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in Shareholders  equity in the Company s consolidated statement of
financial condition in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrete over the term of the stock purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to
Interest expense. When the contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance.             Calculation of Impact on Average Diluted Common Shares Outstanding Prior to Settlement of Stock Purchase Contract.             Prior to the issuance of common stock upon settlement of the stock purchase contract, the
impact of the Equity Units will be reflected in the Company s earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock method, as defined by SFAS No. 128,  Earnings Per Share.  Under the treasury stock method, the number of
shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share will be calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be
received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period.            Dilution of net income per share will occur (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares is over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of
common shares for a reporting period is between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and is greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period.            Upon settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract, the amount of common shares issued in
settlement of the contract will be included in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the reporting period.       

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.               None.         

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures.                Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.             Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer,
we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.             Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.             Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.            Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:         

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Morgan Stanley;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Morgan Stanley s management and directors; and            

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on our financial statements.               Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            Management assessed the effectiveness of Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2007. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on management s assessment and those criteria, management believes that Morgan Stanley maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of November 30, 2007.            Morgan Stanley s
independent registered public accounting firm has audited and issued a report on Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting, which appears below.         

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Morgan Stanley and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of November 30, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of November 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial condition of the Company as of November 30, 2007 and the related consolidated statement of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in shareholders 
equity for the year ended November 30, 2007 and our report dated January 28, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of
FASB Statement No. 115  and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal  
       
   183   

Table of Contents  

2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).             /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      New York, New York      January 28, 2008         
   184   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.             No change in Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting (as such term
is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2007 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    Other   
   Information.               Not applicable.         
   185     

Table of Contents  

Part III          

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.               Information relating to Morgan Stanley s directors and nominees under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors             

Item 1 Election of Directors Board Meetings and Committees                Information relating to Morgan Stanley s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report under  Executive
Officers of Morgan Stanley.             Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on our
internet site,  www.morganstanley.com . We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE, on our internet site.            Because Morgan Stanley s common stock is listed on the NYSE, its Chief Executive Officer
made his annual certification to the NYSE on May 4, 2007 stating that he was not aware of any violation by Morgan Stanley of the NYSE s corporate governance listing standards. In addition, Morgan Stanley has filed, as exhibits to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, the certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to be filed with the SEC regarding the quality of Morgan Stanley s
public disclosure.         

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation.               Information relating to director and executive officer compensation under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors Director Compensation             

Executive Compensation             

Table of Contents  

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.                Equity Compensation Plan Information.             The following table provides information about stock options outstanding and shares of common stock available for future awards under all of Morgan
Stanley s equity compensation plans as of November 30, 2007. Morgan Stanley has not made any grants of common stock outside of its equity compensation plans.       

(2)  
  Includes the following:     

42,582,283 shares available under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). Pursuant to this plan, which is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, eligible
employees may purchase shares of common stock at a discount to market price through regular payroll deduction.           

100,000,000 shares available under the 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (EICP). Awards may consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted
stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock (or the value thereof), other awards that are valued by reference to or otherwise based on the fair market value of common stock, and other equity-based or equity-related awards
approved by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee.           

5,621,592 shares available under the Employee Equity Accumulation Plan (EEAP). Awards may consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock
units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock (or the value thereof), other awards that are valued by reference to or otherwise based on the fair market value of common stock, and other equity-based or equity-related awards approved
by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee.           

415,716 shares available under the Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan (TDEPP). Awards consist of restricted stock units which are settled by the delivery of shares of common
stock.           

586,656 shares available under the Directors  Equity Capital Accumulation Plan (DECAP). This plan provides for periodic awards of shares of common stock and stock units to
non-employee directors and also allows non-employee directors to defer the fees they earn from services as a director in the form of stock units.           

(3)  
  22,957 shares available under the Branch Manager Compensation Plan (BMCP) and 4,970,372 shares available under the Financial Advisor and Investment Representative Compensation Plan
(FAIRCP). The material features of these plans are described below.              The material features of Morgan Stanley s equity compensation plans that have not been approved by shareholders under SEC rules (BMCP and FAIRCP) are described below. The following descriptions do not purport to be complete and are
qualified in their entirety by reference to the plan documents. All plans through which awards may currently be granted are included as exhibits to this report.         
    BMCP.      Branch managers are eligible to receive awards under BMCP. Awards under BMCP may consist of cash awards, restricted stock
and restricted stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock.         
   187     

Table of Contents  

     FAIRCP.      Financial advisors and investment representatives are eligible to receive
awards under FAIRCP. Awards under FAIRCP may consist of cash awards, restricted stock and restricted stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock.       
      * * *             Other information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the caption  Beneficial Ownership of Company Common
Stock  in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.               Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is
incorporated by reference herein.         

Other Matters Certain Transactions             

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services.               Information regarding principal accountant fees and services under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 2 Ratification of Appointment of Morgan Stanley s Independent Auditor  (excluding the information under the subheading  Audit
Committee Report )            

Table of Contents  

Part IV          

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.                 Documents filed as part of this report.           

The financial statements required to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1.            

The financial statement schedules required to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1.            

An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference.            
   189     

Table of Contents  

Signatures             Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 28, 2008.          

M ORGAN  S TANLEY      ( REGISTRANT )    
 
  By:  
     
    / S /    J OHN  J.
M ACK             

(John J. Mack)     Chairman of the Board and  
  Chief Executive Officer    
 
          Power of
Attorney             We, the undersigned, hereby severally constitute Colm Kelleher,
Gary G. Lynch, and Martin M. Cohen, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 28th day of January, 2008.         

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    J OHN  J. M ACK         
     (John J. Mack)   
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    C OLM 
K ELLEHER              (Colm Kelleher)   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    P AUL  C.
W IRTH              (Paul C. Wirth)   
      
    Controller and Principal Accounting Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

/s/    R OY  J.
B OSTOCK              (Roy J. Bostock)   
      
    Director    

/s/    E RSKINE  B.
B OWLES              (Erskine B. Bowles)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H OWARD  J.
D AVIES              (Howard J. Davies)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C. R OBERT 
K IDDER              (C. Robert Kidder)   
      
  Director   

/s/    D ONALD  T.
N ICOLAISEN              (Donald T. Nicolaisen)   
      
  Director   
       
   190     

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    C HARLES  H.
N OSKI              (Charles H. Noski)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H UTHAM  S.
O LAYAN              (Hutham S. Olayan)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C HARLES  E. P HILLIPS ,
J R .             (Charles E. Phillips, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

/s/    O. G RIFFITH 
S EXTON              (O. Griffith Sexton)   
      
  Director   

/s/    L AURA  D A NDREA 
T YSON              (Laura D Andrea Tyson)   
      
  Director   

/s/    K LAUS 
Z UMWINKEL              (Klaus Zumwinkel)   
      
  Director   
       
   191     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        ITEMS
(15)(a)(1) AND (15)(a)(2)         
       
   S-1     

Table of Contents  

SCHEDULE I              MORGAN STANLEY  
      (Parent Company Only)              Condensed Statements of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to Condensed
Financial Statements.         
   S-2     

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE I          
   MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company
Only)              Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive
Income        (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes to Condensed
Financial Statements.         
   S-3     

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE I          
   MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company
Only)              Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
       (dollars in millions)          
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH
FLOW INFORMATION             Cash payments for interest were $8,590 million, $6,230
million and $2,928 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.            Cash payments for income taxes were $847 million, $1,517 million and $867 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.            See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.         
   S-4     

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company Only)              NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation.               Basis of Financial Information.   The accompanying condensed financial statements (the  Parent Company Financial Statements ), including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) and the notes thereto found on pages 101 to 181 in this Form 10-K.            The Parent Company Financial Statements for the 12 months ended November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ), November 30, 2006 ( fiscal 2006 )
and November 30, 2005 ( fiscal 2005 ) are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding valuations of certain financial
instruments, the potential outcome of litigation and other matters that affect the Parent Company Financial Statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial
Statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.             2.    Transactions with Subsidiaries.             The Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and contractual obligations of certain of its consolidated
subsidiaries.            The Company received cash dividends from its consolidated
subsidiaries totaling $6,975 million, $1,838 million and $5,720 million in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively.             3.    Guarantees.             In the normal course of its business, the Company guarantees certain of its subsidiaries  obligations under derivative and other financial arrangements. The Company
records all derivative contracts and Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased at fair value on its consolidated statements of financial condition. For a discussion of the Company s risk management
activities, see Note 6 to the Company s consolidated financial statements.            The Company also, in the normal course of its business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries for taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on
derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions and certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings. Certain contracts contain
provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The
Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.            The Company has issued guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to various U.S. and non-U.S.
exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Company may be required to pay the financial obligations of its subsidiaries related to business transacted on or with the
exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these arrangements and
believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements is remote.         
   S-5     

Table of Contents  

   The Company guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments totaled $11.8
billion and the warrants totaled $0.1 billion at November 30, 2007. In connection with subsidiary lease obligations, the Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. At November 30, 2007, the Company had $2.2 billion outstanding under
subsidiary lease obligations, primarily in the United Kingdom.             4.    Commitments and Contingencies.             For
a discussion of the Company s commitments and contingencies, see Note 15 to the Company s consolidated financial statements.               
   S-6     

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries
(the  Company ) as of November 30, 2007 and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2007 and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30,
2007, and have issued our reports thereon dated January 28, 2008 (such report on the consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2005, concerning the adoption of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ) and, effective December 1, 2005, the change in accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to
retirement-eligible employees and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2006, concerning the application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in the Current
Year Financial Statements  ( SAB No. 108 ) and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  ( SFAS
No. 157 ) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS
No. 159 ) and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included Schedule I listed in the Index to Financial Statements
and Financial Statement Schedules. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.            In fiscal 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R).            In fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to retirement eligible employees and the
Company elected application of SAB No. 108.            In fiscal 2007, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 157, SFAS No. 158 and SFAS No. 159.            /s/ Deloitte
  Touche LLP      New York, New York      January 28, 2008
        
   S-7   

Table of Contents  

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549            EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K             For
the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007       Commission File No. 1-11758           

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Index             Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports
or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Exchange Act, respectively, and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley s Exchange Act file number is 1-11758.
The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a predecessor company ( MSG ), was 1-9085. 1          

Exhibit     No.   

Description     
 
  3.1  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28,
2007).   

3.2  

Certificate of Elimination of the 8.03% Cumulative Preferred Stock dated as of March 23, 2007 (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 23,
2007).   

3.3  

By-Laws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 19, 2007).   

4.1  

Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-57202)).

4.2  

Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-e to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on
Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).    

4.3  
  *  
     
  Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York as trustee (Supplemental to Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of
May 1, 1999).   

4.4  

Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A
(No. 333-117752)).   

4.5  
  *  
     
  First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Supplemental to Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004).

4.6  

Second Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley Current Report on Form 8-K dated
January 4, 2008).   

4.7  

Amended and Restated Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement
on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).   

4.8  

Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-g to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A
(No. 333-117752)).   

4.9  

Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 28, 1998).   

(1)  
  For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to  The Bank of New York  mean in some instances the entity successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association; references to  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to Chemical Bank; references to  J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago.           
   E-1     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit     No.   
      
     Description     

4.10  
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-ww to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form
S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).   

4.11  
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 12, 2006).   

4.12  
      
  Certificate representing the Series A Preferred Stock (Exhibit 4.2 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).   

4.13  
      
  Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to
Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).   

4.14  
      
  Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.13 hereto).   

4.15  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III dated as of February 27, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee, and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003).   

4.16  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV dated as of April 21, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of New
York (Delaware), as Delaware Trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003).   

4.17  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V dated as of July 16, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of New
York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2003).   

4.18  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI dated as of January 26, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006).   

4.19  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII dated as of October 12, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).   

4.20  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII dated as of April 26, 2007 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007).   

4.21  
      
  Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures Except as set forth in Exhibits 4.1 through 4.20 above, the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term
debt securities of Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Morgan Stanley hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the SEC upon request.   

10.1  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of November 30, 2000 between Morgan Stanley and State Street Bank and Trust Company (Exhibit T to Amendment No. 5 to the Schedule 13D dated as of
November 30, 2000 filed by certain senior officers of Morgan Stanley) as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of November 30, 2000 between Morgan Stanley and State Street Bank and Trust Company, effective January 1, 2002 (Exhibit 10.10 to Morgan
Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2001), Amendment No. 2 dated as of November 30, 2000 between Morgan Stanley and State    
       
   E-2     

Table of Contents  

E-3     

Table of Contents  

E-4     

Table of Contents  

E-5     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit     No.   
     
     Description     

11  
     
  Statement Re: Computation of Earnings Per Common Share (The calculation of per share earnings is in Part II, Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Earnings per Share) and is
omitted in accordance with Section (b)(11) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K).   

12*  
     
  Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.   

21*  
     
  Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley.   

23.1*  
     
  Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.   

24  
     
  Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).   

31.1**  
     
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

31.2**  
     
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

32.1**  
     
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

32.2**  
     
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

*  
  Filed herewith.     

**  
  Furnished herewith.     

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b).           

Table of Contents  

<EX-4.3>
 2
 dex43.htm
 FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE DATED AS OF OCTOBER 8, 2007

Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 

Exhibit 4.3       FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE      BETWEEN      MORGAN STANLEY      (formerly known as MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER   CO.)
     AND      THE BANK OF NEW YORK
     as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as The Chase      Manhattan Bank), Trustee      Dated as of October 8, 2007      SUPPLEMENTAL TO AMENDED AND RESTATED SENIOR INDENTURE      DATED AS OF MAY 1, 1999, AS SUPPLEMENTED BY A FIRST      SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 15,      2000, A SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE DATED AS OF      OCTOBER 8, 2002 AND A THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE      DATED AS OF AUGUST 29, 2003.   

THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE dated as of October 8, 2007 between MORGAN STANLEY (formerly known as
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co.), a Delaware corporation (the  Issuer ), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as trustee (the  Trustee ),
     W I T N E S S E T H :      WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1,1999, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 15, 2000, a Second
Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2002 and a Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of August 29, 2003 (as so supplemented, the  Indenture       WHEREAS, the Issuer established and on July 22, 2004 issued its Medium-Term Notes, Series C, Senior Variable Rate Renewable Notes with an initial
maturity date of August 15, 2005 and a final maturity date of August 13, 2010 (the  Notes       WHEREAS,
Section 8.01 of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders of any Securities, the Issuer, when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental to the Indenture,
subject to the conditions set forth therein, for the purpose of, among other things, making any provisions as the Issuer may deem necessary or desirable,  provided that  no such action shall adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the
Securities;      WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to modify certain provisions of the Notes to increase the spread that will be used when
calculating the interest payable with respect to the Notes on Interest Reset Dates from and including September 15, 2007;      WHEREAS,
the entry into this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Indenture; and      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;      NOW, THEREFORE:      In consideration of the
premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:         
   2   

ARTICLE 1      Section 1.01.  Amendment of the Notes.  (i) The definition of Spread (Plus or Minus) within the Notes is hereby amended by deleting the existing definition in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:       
       
   3   

SECTION 1.02.  Exchange of the Notes.  The Trustee is authorized to exchange the original
certificates dated July 22, 2004 evidencing the Notes for the duly executed and authenticated certificates evidencing the amended terms of the Notes. Upon such exchange, the Trustee shall promptly cancel and dispose of such original Notes in
accordance with Section 2.10 of the Indenture. Failure to exchange such original Notes for such amended Notes in accordance with this Section will not impair the validity of or otherwise affect the Notes, as amended.      ARTICLE 2      Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 2.01.  Further Assurances.  The Issuer will, upon request by the Trustee, execute and deliver such further instruments
and do such further acts as may reasonably be necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture.      Section 2.02.  Other Terms of Indenture.  Except insofar as herein otherwise expressly provided, all provisions, terms and conditions of the Indenture are in all respects ratified and confirmed and shall
remain in full force and effect.      Section 2.03.  Terms Defined.  All terms defined elsewhere in the Indenture shall have the same
meanings when used herein.      Section 2.04.  Governing Law.  This Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture shall be deemed to be a
contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.      Section 2.05.  Counterparts.  This Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be
an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.      Section 2.06.  Responsibility of the
Trustee.  The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this
Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture.         
   4   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture to be duly
executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of October 8, 2007.       

MORGAN STANLEY (formerly known as Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co.)   

By:   
     
  /s/ Jai Sooklal   

Name:  
     
  Jai Sooklal   

Title:  
     
  Assistant Treasurer   

Attest:  

By:   
     
  /s/ W. Gary Beeson  

Name:  
     
  W. Gary Beeson  

Title:  
     
  Assistant Secretary  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as TRUSTEE   

By:   
     
  /s/ Francine Kincaid   

Name:  
     
  Francine Kincaid   

Title:  
     
  Vice President   

Attest:  

By:   
     
  /s/ Geovanni Barris  

Name:  
     
  Geovanni Barris  

Title:  
     
  Vice President  

5   

STATE OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

)  
      
  ss.:   
 
  COUNTY OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

On this 8 th  day of October 2007
before me personally came Jai Sooklal to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at Chatham, N.J.; that he is the Assistant Treasurer of Morgan Stanley, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the above instrument; and that signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.      [NOTARIAL
SEAL]        

STATE OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

)  
      
  ss.:   
 
  COUNTY OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

On this 8 th  day of October 2007
before me personally came Francine Kincaid to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she resides at Deer Park, N.Y.; that she is a Vice President of The Bank of New York, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the above instrument; and that signed her name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.      [NOTARIAL SEAL]        

/s/ Carlos R. Luciano   
 
  Notary Public   

2   

</EX-4.3>

<EX-4.5>
 3
 dex45.htm
 FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 4, 2007

First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 

Exhibit 4.5       FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE      BETWEEN      MORGAN STANLEY      AND      THE BANK OF NEW YORK      as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as
JPMorgan Chase      Bank), Trustee      Dated as of September 4, 2007      SUPPLEMENTAL TO SENIOR INDENTURE DATED NOVEMBER 1, 2004.   

THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE dated as of September 4, 2007 between MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware
corporation (the  Issuer ), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as trustee (the  Trustee ),      W I T N E S S E T H :      WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee are parties to that certain
Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 (the  Indenture       WHEREAS, the Issuer established and on January 12,
2005 issued its Medium-Term Notes, Series F, Senior Variable Rate Renewable Notes with an initial maturity date of February 3, 2006 and a final maturity date of February 3, 2011 (the  Original Notes ) and on February 3, 2005
issued additional notes with the same terms (the  Reopening Notes  and together with the Original Notes, the  Notes       WHEREAS, Section 8.01 of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders of any Securities, the Issuer, when authorized by a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental
to the Indenture for the purpose of, among other things, making any provisions as the Issuer may deem necessary or desirable, subject to the conditions set forth therein;  provided that  no such action shall adversely affect the interests of
the Holders of the Securities;      WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to modify certain provisions of the Notes to increase the spread that will be
used when calculating the interest payable with respect to the Notes on Interest Reset Dates from and including September 3, 2007;      WHEREAS, the entry into this First Supplemental Senior Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Indenture; and      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Senior Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;      NOW, THEREFORE:      In consideration of the
premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:         
   2   

ARTICLE 1      Section 1.01.  Amendment of the Notes.  (i) The definition of Spread (Plus or Minus) within the Notes is hereby amended by deleting the existing definition in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:       
       
   3   

SECTION 1.02.  Exchange of the Notes.  The Trustee is authorized to exchange the original
certificates dated January 12, 2005 evidencing the Original Notes and the original certificates dated February 3, 2005 evidencing the Reopening Notes for the duly executed and authenticated certificates evidencing the amended terms of the
Notes. Upon such exchange, the Trustee shall promptly cancel and dispose of such original Notes in accordance with Section 2.10 of the Indenture. Failure to exchange such original Notes for such amended Notes in accordance with this Section
will not impair the validity of or otherwise affect the Notes, as amended.      ARTICLE 2      Miscellaneous Provisions      Section 2.01.
 Further Assurances.  The Issuer will, upon request by the Trustee, execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may reasonably be necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this First
Supplemental Senior Indenture.      Section 2.02.  Other Terms of Indenture.  Except insofar as herein otherwise expressly provided,
all provisions, terms and conditions of the Indenture are in all respects ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect.      Section 2.03.  Terms Defined.  All terms defined elsewhere in the Indenture shall have the same meanings when used herein.      Section 2.04.  Governing Law.  This First Supplemental Senior Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State,
except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.      Section 2.05.  Counterparts.  This First Supplemental Senior
Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.      Section 2.06.  Responsibility of the Trustee.  The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee
assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Senior Indenture.         
   4   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Senior Indenture to be duly
executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of September 4, 2007.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By:   
     
  /s/ Jai Sooklal   

Name:  
     
  Jai Sooklal   

Title:  
     
  Assistant Treasurer   

Attest:  

By:   
     
  /s/ Gary Beeson  

Name:  
     
  Gary Beeson  

Title:  
     
  Assistant Secretary  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUSTEE,   

By:   
     
  /s/ Geovanni Barris   

Name:  
     
  Geovanni Barris   

Title:  
     
  Vice President   

Attest:  

By:   
     
  /s/ Jeremy Finkelstein  

Name:  
     
  Jeremy Finkelstein  

Title:  
     
  Vice President  

5   

STATE OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

)  
      
  ss.:   
 
  COUNTY OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

On this 4 th  day of September
2007 before me personally came Jai Sooklal to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at Chatham, N.J.; that he is the Assistant Treasurer of Morgan Stanley, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the above instrument; and that signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.      [NOTARIAL
SEAL]        

/s/ Michael M. O Brien   
 
  Notary Public   

STATE OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

)  
      
  ss.:   
 
  COUNTY OF NEW YORK  
      
  )  

On this 4 th  day of September
2007 before me personally came Geovanni Barris to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at New York, N.Y.; that he is a Vice President of The Bank of New York, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the above instrument; and that signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.      [NOTARIAL SEAL]        

/s/    Carlos R. Luciano   
 
  Notary Public   

2   

</EX-4.5>

<EX-10.6>
 4
 dex106.htm
 AMENDMENT TO MORGAN STANLEY 401(K) PLAN, DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 20, 2007

Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, dated as of November 20, 2007 

Exhibit 10.6        AMENDMENT TO        401(k) PLAN       Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) as
follows:      1. Effective April 1, 2007, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding a new definition as follows:         Broker-Dealer Merger   means the merger of Morgan Stanley DW Inc. with and into Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated as of
April 1, 2007.       2. Effective November 13, 2007, the definition of  Elective Deferrals  in Section 2 of the
401(k) Plan shall be amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof:       Elective Deferrals shall also include any Roth
Elective Deferrals made pursuant to Section 5(l).       3. Effective April 1, 2007, Section 2, Definitions is amended by
adding the following to the end of the definition of  Eligible IIG Employee :       Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, to the extent an Eligible Employee is an Eligible IIG Employee due to employment by Morgan Stanley DW Inc. or a subsidiary thereof prior to the Broker-Dealer Merger, such Eligible Employee shall not cease to be treated as an Eligible IIG
Employee, nor become treated as an Eligible MS Employee, after the effective date of the Broker-Dealer Merger solely as a result of such merger.       4. Effective November 13, 2007, the first sentence of the definition of  Matched Contributions  in Section 2 of the 401(k) Plan shall be amended to read as follows:         Matched Contributions   means Pre-Tax Contributions, Roth Elective Deferrals and After-Tax Adjustment Contributions. 
     5. Effective April 1, 2007, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the following to the end of paragraph (a) of
 Securities Employee :       or who is treated under this Section 2 as an Eligible IIG Employee after the effective date of
the Broker-Dealer Merger.          
   1   

6. Effective November 13, 2007, Section 5(a)(i) is amended by deleting the reference to
 20%  in the first sentence thereof and inserting  30%  therefor.      7. Effective November 13, 2007,
Section 5(a)(ii) is amended by deleting the reference to  10%  in the first sentence thereof and inserting  30%  therefor.      8. Effective November 13, 2007, the following new Section 5(l) shall be added to the 401(k) Plan:       (l) Roth Elective Deferrals.      (i) General Application.      (1) This Section 5(l) will apply to contributions beginning November 13, 2007.      (2) As of the date specified in subparagraph (1), the Plan will accept Roth Elective Deferrals (as defined herein) made on behalf of
Participants. A Participant s Roth Elective Deferrals will be allocated to a separate Account maintained for such deferrals as described in Section 5(l)(ii).      (3) Unless specifically stated otherwise, Roth Elective Deferrals will be treated as elective deferrals for all purposes under the Plan.
     (ii) Separate Accounting.      (1) Contributions and withdrawals of Roth Elective Deferrals will be credited and debited to the Roth Elective Deferral Account maintained for each Participant.      (2) The Plan will maintain a record of the amount of Roth Elective Deferrals in each Participant s Account.      (3) Gains, losses and other credits or charges will be separately allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis to each
Participant s Roth Elective Deferral Account and the Participant s other Accounts under the Plan.      (4) No
contributions or other amounts other than Roth Elective Deferrals and properly attributable earnings will be credited to each Participant s Roth Elective Deferral Account.      (iii) Direct Rollovers.      (1) Notwithstanding Section 11(g), a direct rollover of a distribution from a Roth Elective Deferral Account under the Plan will only be  
       
   2   

made to another Roth Elective Deferral account under an applicable retirement plan described in Code section 402A(e)(1) or to a Roth IRA described in Code
section 408A, and only to the extent the rollover is permitted under the rules of Code section 402(c).      (2) Notwithstanding
Section 7(a), the Plan will not accept a rollover contribution to a Participant s Roth Elective Deferral Account.      (3) A Participant s Roth Elective Deferral Account and the Participant s other Accounts shall be aggregated for purposes of determining whether the total amount of the Participant s Account balances under the Plan exceeds
$1,000 for purposes of Section 11(c).      (4) The provisions of Section 11(g) of the Plan that allow a Participant
to elect a direct rollover of only a portion of an eligible rollover distribution but only if the amount rolled over is at least $500 are applied by aggregating any amount distributed from the Participant s Roth Elective Deferral Account with
any amount distributed from the Participant s other Accounts in the Plan.      (iv) Distribution of Excess Elective
Deferrals.      (1) In the case of a distribution of Excess Elective Deferrals, Roth Elective Deferrals made by the Participant
shall be distributed first, to the extent of such Roth Elective Deferrals for the year. To the extent necessary, Pre-Tax Contributions for the year will be distributed after Roth Elective Deferrals.      (2) Any distribution of Excess Elective Deferrals shall be made in accordance with Section 5(e), but also taking into account the
Participant s Roth Elective Deferrals and the provisions of this Section 5(l)(iv) and the applicable Treasury regulations.      (v) Correction of Excess Contributions.      (1) In the case of a distribution of Excess Contributions, Roth Elective
Deferrals made by a Highly Compensated Employee shall be distributed first, to the extent of such Roth Elective Deferrals for the year. To the extent necessary, Pre-Tax Contributions for the year will be distributed after Roth Elective Deferrals.
     (2) Any distribution of Excess Contributions shall be made in accordance with Section 5(g), but also taking into
account the Participant s Roth Elective Deferrals and the provisions of this Section 5(l)(v) and the applicable Treasury regulations.         
   3   

(vi) Definition of Roth Elective Deferrals. A Roth Elective Deferral is an Elective
Deferral that is:      (1) Designated irrevocably by the Participant at the time of the cash or deferred election as a Roth
Elective Deferral that is being made in lieu of all or a portion of the Pre-Tax Contributions the Participant is otherwise eligible to make under the Plan; and      (2) Treated by the Participating Company as includible in the Participant s income at the time the Participant would have received
the amount in cash if the Participant had not made a cash or deferred election.      If a Participant does not designate an Elective Deferral as
a Roth Elective Deferral at the time of the cash or deferred election, then the Elective Deferral will be treated as a Pre-Tax Contribution.       9. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 11(g) of the 401(k) Plan is amended by adding the following to the end thereof:       Effective January 1, 2007, the non-spouse Beneficiary of a Participant following the death of the Participant may direct the Plan Administrator to directly roll over all or any portion of a distribution or withdrawal made to such
non-spouse Beneficiary to an individual retirement plan described in Code sections 408(a) or 408(b). Any such rollover shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Code section 402(c)(11) and any guidance promulgated thereunder. 
     10. Effective November 13, 2007, Section 12(b)(iii) of the 401(k) Plan shall be amended by adding the phrase  Roth Elective
Deferrals,  after the phrase  Pre-Tax Contributions.      11. Effective November 13, 2007, Section 12(f)(i) of the 401(k)
Plan shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:       Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, amounts credited
to the Participant s Accounts as Retirement Contributions or Roth Elective Deferrals (and the earnings thereon) shall not be available for a hardship withdrawal.       12. Effective November 13, 2007, Section 12(g)(ii) of the 401(k) Plan shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:   
   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, amounts credited to the Participant s Accounts as Retirement Contributions shall not be
available for a loan nor be included in determining the maximum loan amount available to a Participant under the Plan. Amounts attributable to Roth Elective Deferrals (or the earnings thereon) shall be available for a loan and included in
determining the maximum loan amount available to a Participant under the Plan.          
   4   

13. Effective November 13, 2007, Section 13(b)(ii)(1) of the 401(k) Plan shall be amended to
read as follows:       (1) If the annual additions otherwise made to the Accounts of a Participant would cause the limitations of Code
section 415 that are applicable to that Participant to be exceeded for the limitation year, the amount by which such limitations are exceeded will be eliminated (A) by returning to the Participant the Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions,
Roth Elective Deferrals and/or After-Tax Contributions for such limitation year, in whole or in part as necessary, and then (B) to the extent necessary, by reducing any Company Contributions allocated to the Participant in accordance with
Section 6. Such excess amounts of Company Contributions shall be applied to reduce such contributions for such Participant for the next limitation year (and succeeding limitation years, if necessary).       14. Effective April 1, 2007, Appendix A, IIG Participating Companies, is amended by adding the following to the end thereof:        Morgan Stanley DW Inc.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, to the extent an Eligible IIG Employee is or becomes employed by
Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated as a result of the Broker-Dealer Merger, such Participant s future service with Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated shall be treated as if it were service with an IIG Participating Company in
this Appendix A of the Plan.       15. Effective April 1, 2007, Appendix B, Morgan Stanley, is amended by adding the following to the
end thereof:        Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, to the extent
an Eligible IIG Employee is or becomes employed by Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated as a result of the Broker-Dealer Merger, such Participant s future service with Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated shall be treated as if it
were service with an IIG Participating Company in this Appendix A of the Plan.       16. Effective November 13, 2007, the introductory
paragraph of Section 5 of Supplement B to the 401(k) Plan shall be amended to read as follows:       5. Revised Section 5
Employee Contributions. For the purpose of this Supplement only, Sections 5(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (j) and (k) of the Plan document will read as follows and Sections 5(h), (i) and (l) will not be applicable (for
purposes of compliance with the PR Code).          
   5   

17. Effective April 1, 2007, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto Rico, is amended by
adding the following to the end of Section 1 thereof:       Effective as of the date of the Broker-Dealer Merger, all references to
Morgan Stanley DW Inc. or Dean Witter Puerto Rico, Inc. shall be read as references to Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated.       *
* * * * * * * *      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 20th day of
November, 2007.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
  /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY   
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources   

6   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.9>
 5
 dex109.htm
 TAX DEFERRED EQUITY PARTICIPATION PLAN

Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.9        MORGAN STANLEY        TAX DEFERRED EQUITY PARTICIPATION PLAN        (Amended and Restated as of November 26, 2007)        

1.   
   Purposes of the Plan.         The primary purpose of the
Morgan Stanley Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan is to promote the long-term growth and financial success of Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (  Morgan Stanley  ), by attracting and retaining employees of outstanding
ability and assisting Morgan Stanley in promoting a greater identity of interest between Participants and Morgan Stanley s shareholders.       

2.   
   Definitions.         Unless determined otherwise by the
Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings set forth below.      (a)   Account   means a book account maintained by Morgan Stanley reflecting, with respect to each Award, the number of shares of Stock to be distributed to each Participant upon a Realization Event.      (b)   Administrator   means the individual or individuals to whom the Committee delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with
Section 5.      (c)   Affiliate   means any corporation which is a member of a  controlled group of corporations 
(as defined in Code section 414(b)) of which Morgan Stanley is a member and any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under  common control  (as defined in Code section 414(c)) with Morgan Stanley.      (d)   Award   means an award granted to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to Section 7.      (e)   Award Certificate   means a written certificate (including in electronic form) issued by the Company and signed on behalf of the
Company (which signature may be in facsimile) and sets forth the terms and conditions of the Award.      (f)   Board   means the
Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.      (g)   Change in Control  :      (A) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or before December 31, 1997,   Change in Control   means:
     (i) The acquisition by any person (including a group, within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Exchange Act), other than (I) any employee plan established by a Company or (II) any of Morgan Stanley s affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), without the prior approval  
       
   1   

of the Board, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the then
outstanding shares of Stock or the combined voting power of Morgan Stanley s then outstanding voting securities in a transaction or series of transactions not approved by a majority of the Directors as of the Effective Date; or      (ii) A change in the composition of the Board such that individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board cease for any
reason to constitute at least a majority thereof,  provided  that any person who becomes a Director subsequent to the Effective Date and whose nomination for election is approved by at least a majority of the Directors as of the Effective Date,
(other than a nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of Morgan Stanley, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of
Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be deemed a Director as of the Effective Date.      (B) In respect of each
Award having an effective date on or after January 1, 1998,   Change in Control   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term by the Committee in respect of such Award and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.
     (h)   Change in Ownership   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term by the Committee and set forth in the applicable
Award Certificate.      (i)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and
guidance thereunder and any successor thereto.      (j)   Committee   means such committee of two or more persons as the Board
shall appoint from time to time to administer the Plan. It is intended that the members of the Committee shall be  non-employee directors  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 and  outside directors  within the meaning of
Section 162(m);  however , the mere fact that a Committee member shall fail to qualify under either of these requirements shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee that is otherwise valid.      (k)   Company   means each of Morgan Stanley, its Affiliates and any Subsidiary the employees of which participate in the Plan pursuant to
Section 3(a).      (l)   Compensation   for a year means the annual rate of salary payable to the Participant for such year
(disregarding any salary reduction agreements under any deferred compensation plan, including plans described in Code section 125 or 401(k)) plus the annual incentive bonus payable to such Participant for such year. Compensation shall not include
the amount of any contribution payable under the Plan.      (m)   Disability  :      (i) In respect of each Award having an effective date prior to June 20, 2006,   Disability   means any physical or
mental condition that would qualify a Participant for a disability benefit under any long-term disability plan maintained by any Company and applicable to the Participant.      (ii) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after June 20, 2006,   Disability   has the meaning
determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         
   2   

(n)   Dividend Equivalent   has the meaning set forth in Section 9(b).      (o)   Effective Date   means January 1, 1994.      (p)   ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder and any successor thereto.      (q)   Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor thereto.      (r)   Fair Market Value  :      (i) In respect of each Award having an effective date before June 20, 2006,   Fair Market Value   means:      (a) for purposes of determining the number of shares of Stock to be allocated to an Award made pursuant to Section 7 and to a
Participant s Account pursuant to Section 9(a), the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee; and      (b) for purposes of crediting a Participant s Account with shares of Stock based upon cash dividends paid or deemed to be paid on
shares of Stock credited to the Participant s Account pursuant to Section 9(b), the average of the high and low sales prices, regular way, of a share of Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape (the  High/Low
Price ) on the relevant dividend payment date, or, if Stock is not traded on public markets on the relevant dividend payment date, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;  provided ,  however , that in the
event a  Fair Market Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee; and
     (c) for purposes of distributing cash, either in lieu of a fractional share following a Realization Event pursuant to
Section 10, in lieu of Stock pursuant to Section 11(b) or in lieu of Stock following a Revocation Event pursuant to Section 20, the High/Low Price on the date of the Realization Event or the Revocation Event, as applicable, or, if
Stock is not traded on public markets on the date of the Realization Event or the Revocation Event, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;  provided ,  however , that in the event a  Fair Market
Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.      (ii) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after June 20, 2006,   Fair Market Value   means, with
respect to a share of Stock, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.         
   3   

(s)   Investment Period  , with respect to an Award, means: (A) in respect of each
Award having an effective date on or before December 31, 1997, the five-year period beginning on the date as of which such Award is granted; and (B) in respect of each Award having an effective date on or after January 1, 1998, the
period beginning on the date as of which the Award is granted and concluding on the date specified by the Committee as the conclusion of the Investment Period in respect of such Award.      (t)   Minimum Eligible Compensation   means $100,000 with respect to the calendar year ending December 31, 1997, and with respect to
each fiscal year of the Company beginning on or after December 1, 1997, $100,000 or such greater amount as the Committee shall determine.      (u)   Participant   means a key employee of any Company who is determined by the Committee to be eligible to participate in the Plan and who is designated as a Participant pursuant to Section 6.      (v)   Plan   means the Morgan Stanley Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan.      (w)   Realization Event  :      (i) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or before December 31, 1997,   Realization Event   means the first to occur of (i) the expiration of the Investment Period with respect
to such Award, (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Control, (iii) the termination of the Plan pursuant to Section 17, or (iv) the Participant s death;      (ii) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after January 1, 1998 and prior to June 20, 2006,
  Realization Event   means the first to occur of (i) the expiration of the Investment Period with respect to such Award, (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Ownership, (iii) the termination of the Plan pursuant to
Section 17, or (iv) the Participant s death;  provided ,  however , that if a Realization Event as so defined would occur at a time when the Participant is considered by the Company to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m), then, unless the Committee shall determine otherwise in its sole discretion, the Realization Event shall automatically be deferred until the first date after the Participant has ceased to be
considered such a  covered employee  and      (iii) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after
June 20, 2006,   Realization Event   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term by the Committee in respect of such Award and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.      (x)   Retirement  :      (i) In respect of each Award having an effective date prior to June 20, 2006,   Retirement   means a Participant s termination of employment with all Companies on or after: (i) the date (the  Pension
Retirement Date ) on which the Participant would first be eligible to retire under any tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan maintained by a Company in which the Participant participates; or (ii) in respect of any Award as the
Committee determines, such date preceding the Pension Retirement Date as the Committee may determine; and      (ii) In respect
of each Award having an effective date on or after June 20, 2006,   Retirement   means a Participant s termination of employment under the circumstances determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate.         
   4   

(y)   Revocation Event   means a determination by the Board in its sole discretion that
any of the following has occurred or is likely to occur:      (i) A determination by the Department of Labor or a court of
competent jurisdiction that the assets of the Trust are subject to Part 4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA or that the Plan is a  pension plan  (within the meaning of ERISA section 3(2)) subject to Parts 2, 3 and
4 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA;      (ii) A determination by the Internal Revenue Service or a court of competent
jurisdiction that any amount deposited in the Trust is taxable to any Participant or beneficiary prior to the distribution of such amount; or      (iii) A determination by the Company s independent public accountants that the accounting expense to the Companies of maintaining the Trust under the Plan is based on a value of the shares of Stock other than
such value on the date shares of Stock are (A) acquired by the Trust or (B) credited to a Participant s Account.      (z)
  Rule 16b-3   means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.      (aa)   Section
162(m)   means Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).      (ab)   Section 409A   means
Section 409A of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).      (ac)   Securities Act   means the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and any successor thereto.      (ad)   Stock   means the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Morgan
Stanley, or the common stock of any successor thereto.      (ae)   Subsidiary   means (i) a corporation or other entity
with respect to which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has the power, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, to elect at least a majority of the members of such corporation s board of directors or
analogous governing body, or (ii) any other corporation or other entity in which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has an equity or similar interest and which the Committee designates as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.   
  (af)   Trust   means any trust established or maintained by the Company in connection with an employee benefit plan of the Company
(including the Plan) under which current or former employees of the Company constitute the principal beneficiaries.      (ag)
  Trustee   means the trustee of the Trust.       

3.   
   Participation in the Plan by a Subsidiary s Employees.         (a) Subject to the approval of the Committee, the employees of any Subsidiary may be eligible to participate in the Plan.         
   5   

(b) No Subsidiary or Affiliate shall have any power with respect to the Plan except as specifically
provided in the Plan.      (c) Morgan Stanley may require each Company (other than Morgan Stanley), as a condition of its employees 
participation in the Plan, to enter into an agreement obligating such Company to pay to Morgan Stanley, in cash, the appropriate value, as determined by the Board, of any Stock that Morgan Stanley contributes to the Trust in respect of Participants
employed by such Company and/or to reimburse Morgan Stanley for any other amounts paid by Morgan Stanley hereunder, directly or indirectly, in respect of Participants employed by such Company.       

4.   
   Stock Subject to the Plan.         Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 13, the Committee may grant Awards under the Plan with respect to a number of shares of Stock that, in the aggregate, does not exceed 3,500,000 1  shares. In
the event that any Award is forfeited for any reason, the number of shares of Stock making up such forfeited Award (other than shares of Stock credited to such Participant s Account solely as a result of earnings on such Award) shall again be
available for grant under the Plan.       

5.   
   Administration of the Plan.         (a) The Plan shall be
administered by the Committee. The Committee may, but need not, from time to time delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan to an Administrator consisting of one or more members of the Committee or one or more directors or officers of the
Company;  provided ,  however , that the Committee may not delegate its authority (i) to make Awards to any key employee (A) who is subject as of the effective date of the Award to the reporting rules under Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act or (B) who is, as of the effective date of the Award, one of Morgan Stanley s  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m), (ii) to construe and interpret the Plan or (iii) under
Section 17(a) of the Plan. Any delegation hereunder shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation or thereafter. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as obligating the Committee to
delegate authority to an Administrator, and the Committee may at any time rescind or modify the authority delegated to an Administrator hereunder or appoint a new Administrator. At all times, the Administrator appointed hereunder shall serve in such
capacity at the pleasure of the Committee. Any action undertaken by the Administrator in accordance with the Committee s delegation of authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by the Committee, and any reference
to the Committee in the Plan shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of such delegation, be deemed to include a reference to the Administrator.      (b) The Committee shall have full authority, consistent with the Plan, to administer the Plan, including authority to interpret and construe any Plan provision and to adopt such rules and regulations and such forms of
elections as it may deem necessary or appropriate. Decisions of the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties. In the event of a disagreement between the Committee and the Administrator, the Committee s determination on such matter
shall be final and binding on all parties, including the Administrator. Subject to Section 3(d), all expenses of the Plan shall be paid by Morgan Stanley.       

1    
    This number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan that was initially
approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number made in accordance with Section 4 or Section 13 after the
Effective Date.            
   6   

(c) No member of the Committee or any Administrator shall be liable for any action, omission or
determination relating to the Plan, and the Companies shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee, each Administrator and each other director or employee of the Companies to whom any duty or power relating to the Plan has been
delegated, against any cost, expense (including counsel fees, which fees shall be paid as incurred) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim) arising out of any action, omission or determination relating to the Plan, if made in
good faith in a manner reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Companies, and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, if made with reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was lawful.      (d) The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to time, resolve to administer the Plan, in which case, the term Committee as used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Board.       

6.   
   Eligibility.         The persons eligible to participate
in the Plan shall be key employees of the Companies, as determined by the Committee. The Committee shall grant Awards to such Participants as it shall, in its sole discretion, determine,  provided  that no Award shall be made in any fiscal year
to any eligible employee whose annualized Compensation with respect to such fiscal year is not at least equal to the Minimum Eligible Compensation. The Committee may from time to time add to or exclude from participation one or more eligible
employees. Each eligible employee shall become a Participant effective on the date as of which the employee is designated as a Participant or members of a class of employees including the employee are designated as Participants.       

7.   
   Awards under the Plan.         (a)  Awards .
     (i) The Committee shall have full authority to grant Awards to Participants. Awards under the Plan may, in the discretion
of the Committee, be made in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation payable to a Participant. Awards shall be denominated in a number of shares of Stock determined under Section 9. In respect of each Award having an
effective date on or after January 1, 1998, (A) the Award shall be subject to any terms and conditions as may be established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Certificate and (B) the
terms, conditions and other provisions of the Award shall be set forth in the Award Certificate. The Company may, in its sole discretion, require a Participant to execute and return a copy of the Award Certificate to the Company as a condition to
receiving or retaining an Award or payment in respect of an Award.      (ii) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, no
Award with respect to a fiscal year shall be granted to a Participant whose employment with the Companies and Affiliates terminates prior to the end of such fiscal year.      (b)  Vesting .      (i) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or before
December 31, 1997, a Participant shall have a vested interest in the Award upon the first to occur of: (A) completion of two years of service for the Companies and the Affiliates following the grant of such  
       
   7   

Award; (B) the Participant s termination of employment with all Companies and the Affiliates as a result of Disability or Retirement; (C) the
Participant s termination of employment with all Companies and the Affiliates which is initiated by a Company by reason of the Company s decision to close permanently a branch office or other facility, or to reduce permanently the number
of employees which it employs due to substantial change in economic conditions; or (D) the Participant s death while employed by a Company or one of the Affiliates;  provided ,  however , that any vested Award shall be canceled
if a Participant s employment with any Company is terminated for cause, the Participant resigns for cause or the Committee determines that the Participant has committed an act or omission upon which a Company would have terminated the
Participant s employment for cause.      (ii) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after January 1,
1998, (A) a Participant shall have a vested interest in the Award upon the satisfaction of such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine applicable to such Award and (B) the Committee may provide that such Award shall be subject
to forfeiture, cancellation or termination on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine.       

8.   
   Funding of the Plan.         The Plan shall be unfunded.
Benefits under the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley may establish or contribute to the Trust to assist Morgan Stanley in meeting its obligations hereunder, but shall not be obligated to do so.   

9.   
   Maintenance of Accounts.         With respect to each
Participant, the Committee shall maintain an Account as follows:      (a) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or before
December 31, 1997, such Participant s Account shall be credited as of the date of each Award with a number of shares of Stock equal to: (I) the dollar amount of such Participant s Award divided by (II) the product of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Stock multiplied by .80. In respect of each Award having an effective date on or after January 1, 1998, each such Participant s Account shall be credited as of the date of each Award with a number of shares of
Stock equal to: (I) the dollar amount of such Participant s Award divided by (II) the product of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock multiplied by a fraction determined by the Committee to reflect the various restrictions, conditions
and limitations applicable to such Award.      (b) In respect of each Award having an effective date on or before December 31, 1997, such
Participant s Account shall be credited as soon as practicable following the payment date of ordinary or regular cash dividends on Stock with a number of shares of Stock, the Fair Market Value of which equals the dollar amount of ordinary or
regular dividends that would have been paid with respect to Stock credited to such Participant s Account had the Participant held such Stock as of the record date applicable to such dividends. In respect of each Award having an effective date
on or after January 1, 1998, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, (I) provide that each Participant s Account shall be credited as soon as practicable following the payment date of ordinary or regular cash dividends on Stock
with a number of shares of Stock, the Fair Market Value of which equals the dollar amount of dividends that would have been paid with respect to Stock credited to such Participant s Account had the Participant held such Stock as of the record
date applicable to such dividends, (II) determine, in lieu of so crediting a Participant s Account, to make cash payments to the Participant equal to the dollar amount of ordinary or regular dividends that would have been paid with respect to
Stock credited to such  
       
   8   

Participant s Account had the Participant held such Stock as of the record date applicable to such dividends (  Dividend Equivalents  )
or (III) allow a Participant to elect between having Morgan Stanley so credit the Participant s Account and receiving Dividend Equivalents, all on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Any determination by the Committee with
respect to a Participant s entitlement to receive any amounts related to ordinary or regular dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such entitlement, if any, will be part of the terms and
conditions of the Award, and will be set forth in the Award Certificate corresponding to such Award.      (c) Each Participant s Account
shall be reduced by the number of shares of Stock distributed to the Participant in respect of such Account, whether such shares are distributed from the Trust or directly from Morgan Stanley.       

10.   
   Payments under the Plan.         (a) Within 30 days after
the occurrence of a Realization Event with respect to an Award having an effective date prior to June 20, 2006, Morgan Stanley shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Participant the number of whole shares of Stock credited to such
Participant s Account as of the date of the Realization Event as a result of such Award (including shares reflecting the reinvestment of dividends paid thereon), and cash with respect to any fractional shares of Stock credited to such
Participant s Account in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such fractional shares as of the date of the Realization Event. Notwithstanding the fact that Morgan Stanley may establish or contribute to the Trust for the purpose of
assisting it in meeting its obligations under the Plan, Morgan Stanley shall remain obligated to pay the amounts credited to Participants  Accounts. Nothing shall relieve Morgan Stanley of its liabilities under the Plan except to the extent
amounts are paid from Trust assets or otherwise. Payment in respect of each Award having an effective date on or after June 20, 2006 shall be made in accordance with terms and conditions determined by the Committee and set forth in the
applicable Award Certificate.      (b) In order to accomplish the purposes of the Plan, amounts allocated to Participants  Accounts
generally must track the performance of the Stock until the occurrence of the Realization Event with respect to such amounts. Accordingly, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines by a final adjudication that Morgan Stanley is obligated to
distribute to any person shares of Stock credited to a Participant s Account prior to the occurrence of a Realization Event with respect to such shares, the Stock so distributed shall be restricted as to transferability until the date that a
Realization Event would have occurred with respect to such shares had they not been distributed and remained subject to the Plan, and if certificated shall bear any legend determined appropriate by the Committee and the following legend:   
   The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions
(including forfeiture and restrictions against transfer) contained in the Morgan Stanley Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan. A copy of the Plan is on file in the office of the Secretary of Morgan Stanley, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York
10036.        
    Subject to Section 10,
Morgan Stanley shall use its best efforts to assure that any securities distributed to Participants hereunder are freely transferable at the time of distribution, including, to the extent required under applicable law, effecting the registration
pursuant to the Securities Act of any shares of Stock to be distributed hereunder or effecting similar compliance  
       
   9   

under any state laws;  provided, however , that with respect to any Award having an effective date on or after January 1, 1998, securities
distributed to Participants hereunder may be subject to such restrictions on transfer as the Committee may determine. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Morgan Stanley shall not be obligated to cause to be issued or delivered any
shares of Stock pursuant to the Plan unless and until Morgan Stanley is advised by its counsel that the issuance and delivery of such shares complies with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authorities and the requirements of any
securities exchange on which Stock is listed. The Committee may require, as a condition of the issuance and delivery of shares of Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the recipient of such shares to make such covenants, agreements and
representations, and that if certificated, the certificates representing such shares bear such legends, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable.       

12.   
   [Intentionally Omitted]          

13.   
   Adjustments in Certain Events.         (a) A
Participant s Account shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the amount of any securities, cash and other property that would have been received with respect to shares of Stock credited to such Participant s Account if such Stock were held
by the Participant as a result of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, extraordinary dividend, merger, spinoff, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change or any other equity restructuring event.
     (b) In the event of any change in the number of shares of Stock outstanding by reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization,
extraordinary dividend, merger, spinoff, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change or any other equity restructuring event, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock subject to the Plan and the class of
shares of Stock subject to the Plan shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee.      (c) Except as expressly provided in this Section, a
Participant shall have no rights as a result of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, extraordinary dividend, merger, spinoff, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change or any other equity restructuring
event.       

14.   
   [Intentionally Omitted]          

15.   
   No Special Employment Rights.         Nothing in the Plan
shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the service of any Company or affect any right that any Company may have to terminate the service of the Participant. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any employee of any Company
any right to participate in the Plan.       

16.   
   Payroll and Withholding Taxes; Other Obligations.         As a condition to the making or retention of any Award, the vesting or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, the Company may require a Participant to pay such sum to the Company as may be necessary to
discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA tax) imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any obligation that the
Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and  
       
   10   

procedures authorized by the Company, (i) such payment may be in the form of cash or other property, including the tender of previously owned shares of
Stock and (ii) in satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or, exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, of other obligations that a
Participant owes to the Company, the Company may make available for delivery a lesser number of shares of Stock in payment of an Award, may deduct or withhold from any payment or distribution to a Participant, whether or not pursuant to the Plan,
that is not made in respect of a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A, or may enter into any other suitable arrangements to satisfy such withholding or other obligation. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of
compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not offset from the payment of such Award amounts that a Participant owes to the Company with respect to any such other obligation except to the extent such offset is not prohibited by
Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.       

17.   
   Termination and Amendment.         (a) The Plan may be
terminated in whole or in part with respect to any or all Participants at any time by the Committee. Subject to Section 20, upon such termination, the assets related to the Plan, if any, in the Trust shall be distributed to each affected
Participant with respect to whom the Plan has been terminated in order to meet the benefit obligations under the Plan with respect to each such Participant,  provided  that the Committee shall not have any right to make such distribution to an
affected Participant to the extent such distribution is prohibited by Section 409A or the existence of such right would result in the Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A. In the event the entire Plan is
terminated, the remaining assets related to the Plan, if any, in the Trust after the payment of such benefits shall be paid to Morgan Stanley. The Plan may be amended by the Committee from time to time in any respect;  provided ,
 however , that if and to the extent required by Rule 16b-3 or by any comparable or successor exemption under which the Committee believes it is appropriate for the Plan to qualify, no amendment shall be effective without the approval of
the shareholders of Morgan Stanley, which (a) except as provided in Section 13, increases the number of shares of Stock that may be distributed under the Plan, (b) materially increases the benefits accruing to individuals under the
Plan or (c) materially modifies the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan. No amendment or termination shall be made that would materially impair the rights of any Participant in any Award theretofore granted or made, or
any earnings with respect thereto, without such Participant s prior written consent;  provided ,  however , that Morgan Stanley may amend the Plan and the Trust from time to time in such a manner as may be necessary to avoid having
the trust agreement pursuant to which the Trust is created, the Plan or the Trust being subject to ERISA and to avoid the current taxation of the assets held in the Trust to Participants; and  provided ,  further , that Morgan Stanley may
amend or modify the Plan in any manner that it considers necessary or advisable to comply with any law, regulation, regulatory guidance, ruling, judicial decision or accounting standards. Neither a Participant s incurring any income tax
liability nor the loss of an investment opportunity as a result of the termination of the Plan shall be considered an impairment of the rights of a Participant.      (b) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, including, without limitation, the following sentence, the Committee may amend outstanding Awards, including, without limitation, by any amendment which would
accelerate the time or times at which the Award may vest or become payable and by any other amendment to any other term or condition of the Award. Notwithstanding any other authority granted to it, the Committee shall not have  
       
   11   

authority to accelerate the payment or settlement of any Award granted under the Plan that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to
Section 409A, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment, settlement or
exercise of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.       

18.   
   [Intentionally Omitted]          

19.   
   Shareholder Approval.         The Plan was approved by the
shareholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) on May 20, 1994.       

20.   
   Effect of Revocation Event.         Upon the occurrence of
a Revocation Event, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to terminate the Plan and/or the Trust in whole or in part. In the event that the Committee elects to so terminate the Plan, the Trust or any Participant s Account as a result
of a Revocation Event, in consideration of and as soon as practicable after Morgan Stanley s providing the Trustee with a written undertaking to pay to Participants the amount to be paid under this Section, all amounts related to the Plan held
in the Trust (or if the entire Trust is not terminated, any terminated Accounts) shall be distributed to Morgan Stanley. In respect of any Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, Morgan Stanley shall,
in its sole discretion, (a) pay to each Participant whose Account is terminated, as soon as practicable after the date of such termination, a lump sum in cash equal to the Fair Market Value multiplied by the number of shares of Stock reflected
in each Participant s Account as of the date of such termination, (b) distribute to each Participant whose Account is terminated, as soon as practicable after the date of such termination, that number of shares of Stock that would have
been distributable to such Participant under the Plan or (c) distribute to each Participant whose Account is terminated that number of shares of Stock that would have been distributable to such Participant at such time as shares would have been
distributable to such Participant under the Plan, had the Plan continued. Morgan Stanley shall not make any such payment or distribution to a Participant whose Account is terminated in respect of any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation
subject to Section 409A, except to the extent that such acceleration or distribution is not prohibited by Section 409A-and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time
of payment, settlement or exercise of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.       
    (a)  Stockholder Rights .
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, prior to the payment of Stock pursuant to any Award, the Participant shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Stock subject to such Award.      (b)  Transferability . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, no Award granted under the Plan shall be transferable other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution.      (c)  Non-Uniform Determinations . The Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be
uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated).  
       
   12   

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and
to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Certificates, as to the persons receiving Awards under the Plan, and the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan.      (d)  Headings . The headings of sections herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.      (e)  Governing Law . The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware
without reference to the principles of conflicts of law.         
   13   

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.12>
 6
 dex1012.htm
 EMPLOYEES' EQUITY ACCUMULATION PLAN

Employees' Equity Accumulation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.12        MORGAN STANLEY        EMPLOYEES  EQUITY ACCUMULATION PLAN        (Amended and Restated as of November 26, 2007)        Section 1      Purpose .       The primary purposes of the Morgan Stanley Employees  Equity
Accumulation Plan are to attract, retain and motivate key employees of the Company and to align the interests of key employees with stockholders through equity-based compensation and enhanced opportunities for ownership of Stock. It is the further
purpose of this Plan to permit the granting of Awards that will constitute performance-based compensation for certain executive officers, as described in Section 162(m) of the Code.       Section 2      Definitions .       Unless determined otherwise by the Committee
and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings set forth below.      2.1
  Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor thereto.      2.2   Amendment Date   shall
mean March 21, 2006.      2.3   Award   shall mean a grant of Stock or cash, or the right to acquire Stock or cash, under such terms and
conditions as shall be determined by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan.      2.4   Award Certificate   shall mean a written
document (including in electronic form) described in Section 6.2, setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award made pursuant to the Plan.      2.5
  Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.      2.6   Cash Unit   shall mean a general, unsecured obligation
of the Company to pay cash to a Participant pursuant to an Award recorded by the Company as a bookkeeping entry.      2.7   Code   shall mean
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor thereto.      2.8   Committee   shall mean a committee of two or more directors
of Morgan Stanley, as described in Section 3.1.      2.9   Company   shall mean Morgan Stanley and any corporation, trade or business which
at the time of reference, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with Morgan Stanley.      2.10   Consent   shall mean, with respect to the granting of any Award under the Plan, the acquisition, issuance or purchase of Stock or other rights hereunder or the taking of any other action hereunder:      (i) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or other self-regulatory
organization or under any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation;         
   1   

(ii) the expiration, elimination or satisfaction of any prohibitions, restrictions or
limitations under any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation or the rules of any securities exchange or other self-regulatory organization;      (iii) any and all written agreements and representations by the Participant with respect to the disposition of Stock, or with respect to any other matter, which the Committee shall deem necessary or desirable to
comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made; and      (iv) any and all consents, clearances and approvals in respect of the granting of an Award, the acquisition, issuance or purchase of Stock
or other rights hereunder or the taking of any other action under the Plan, by any governmental agencies or other regulatory bodies or any parties to any loan agreements or other contractual obligations of the Company.      2.11   Disability   shall mean the termination of a Participant s employment with the Company under circumstances that (i) entitle the
Participant to receive benefits under any long-term disability plan sponsored by the Company, or (ii) if the Participant does not participate in such a plan, are determined by the Committee to have been caused by a physical or mental condition
that would have entitled the Participant (if the Participant had been eligible to participate) to receive disability benefits under the Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover   Co. Long Term Disability Plan or any successor thereto.
     2.12   Effective Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.12.      2.13   Executive Officer   shall mean an executive officer of Morgan Stanley within the meaning of Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the Act.      2.14   Fair Market Value   shall mean, with respect to a share of Stock, the fair market value thereof as determined by the Committee as follows:
     (i) if Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price, regular way, of the Stock as reported
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on the date of reference or, if no such reported sale of the Stock shall have occurred on such date, on the next preceding date on which there was such a reported sale; or      (ii) if Stock is not so listed but is listed on another national securities exchange or authorized for quotation on the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc. s NASDAQ National Market System ( NNM ), the closing price, regular way of the Stock on such date on such exchange or NNM, as the case may be, on which the largest number of shares of Stock have
been traded in the aggregate on the preceding twenty trading days or, if no such reported sale of the Stock shall have occurred on such date on such exchange or NNM, as the case may be, on the preceding date on which there was such a reported sale
on such exchange or NNM, as the case may be; or      (iii) if Stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange
or authorized for quotation on NNM, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or, if no such prices shall have been so reported for such date, on
the next preceding date for which such prices were so reported; or         
   2   

(iv) if no Fair Market Value may be determined from the foregoing, the value of a share
of Stock as determined in good faith by the Committee;       provided ,  however , that, with respect to any Award granted on or after the Amendment
Date,   Fair Market Value   shall mean, with respect to a share of Stock, the fair market value of the Stock on the date of reference, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.      2.15   Morgan Stanley   shall mean Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.      2.16   Option   shall mean a right to acquire Stock.      2.17
  Original Option   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(a).      2.18   Other Stock-Based Awards   shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.      2.19   Participant   shall mean an individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
     2.20   Plan   shall mean the Morgan Stanley Employees  Equity Accumulation Plan, as amended from time to time.      2.21   Plan Action   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.2.      2.22   Related Employment   shall mean the employment of an individual by an employer other than the Company,  provided  that:      (i) such employment is undertaken by the individual at the request or with the consent of the Company;      (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment the individual was an employee of the Company, or was engaged in Related Employment
as defined herein; and      (iii) such employment is recognized by the Committee, in its discretion, as Related Employment.
     2.23   Related SAR   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(a)      2.24   Restoration Option   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(a).      2.25
  Restoration Option Right   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(a).      2.26   Restricted Stock   shall mean
an Award of Stock subject to conditions determined by the Committee pursuant to Section 8.      2.27   Retirement   shall mean the
termination of a Participant s employment with the Company under circumstances giving rise to an entitlement to a retirement benefit, including a benefit payable by reason of Disability, under any employee pension benefit plan maintained by the
Company which plan is intended to be qualified under Code section 401(a);  provided ,  however , that, if the Participant has not accrued a benefit under any such pension plan, the term  Retirement  shall have the meaning given
to such term under the Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Pension Plan or any successor thereto;  provided ,  further , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the transfer of an individual to Related Employment shall not be treated as a termination
of employment due to Retirement.         
   3   

2.28   Rule 16b-3   shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Act and any successor provision thereto.
     2.29   SAR   shall mean a stock appreciation right, as described in Section 7.3.      2.30   SEC   shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or any United States federal governmental body that succeeds to its responsibilities.
     2.31   Section 162(m) Award   shall mean an Award that is intended to constitute qualified performance-based compensation within the
meaning of Code section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder (or any successor provisions thereto).      2.32   Section 409A   shall mean Code
section 409A and the regulations thereunder (or any successor provisions thereto).      2.33   Stock   shall mean the common stock of Morgan
Stanley, par value $.01 per share, and any stock into which such stock is transformed as a result of a corporate reorganization or other transaction.      2.34
  Stock Unit   shall mean a general, unsecured obligation of the Company to deliver one share of Stock (or the value thereof) to a Participant pursuant to an Award recorded by the Company as a bookkeeping entry and subject to
conditions determined by the Committee pursuant to Section 8.      2.35   Unrelated SAR   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7.3(b).       Section 3      Administration .       3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. It is intended that the directors appointed to serve on the Committee shall qualify (i) as  non-employee directors  (within the meaning of Rule
16b-3), (ii) as  outside directors  (within the meaning of Code section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder), and (iii) under any similar statute or rule, in each case, to the extent applicable. The fact that a Committee member
shall fail to qualify under any of these requirements shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan.      3.2 The Committee shall have the authority:      (i) to exercise all of the powers granted to it under the Plan;
     (ii) to construe, interpret and implement the Plan and any written documents setting forth the terms of Awards under the
Plan;      (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules relating to the Plan;      (iv) to make any determination necessary or advisable in administering the Plan;      (v) to correct any defect, supply any omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award made under the Plan; and
        
   4   

(vi) to delegate any of its powers to Morgan Stanley s chief executive officer or to
one or more other officers of the Company, except with respect to any person subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Act, with respect to a Section 162(m) Award or which by law may not be so delegated.      3.3 Morgan Stanley s chief executive officer may, to the extent permitted by law, further delegate any of the powers that the Committee has delegated to such
officer pursuant to Section 3.2(vi) to one or more officers of the Company.      3.4 The determination of the Committee on all matters relating to the
Plan or any Award made under the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons interested herein.      3.5 No member of the
Committee shall be liable, individually or jointly and severally with any other Committee member, for any action, determination or omission made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award hereunder. In the performance of their duties
hereunder, Committee members shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished: (a) by the Company and its officers, directors, employees, accountants, counsel and consultants; (b) by Participants and their heirs, assigns and
representatives; and (c) by any other party whose information or advice is determined by the Committee to be reasonable and necessary for the administration of the Plan.      3.6 The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from
time to time, resolve to administer the Plan, in which case, the term Committee as used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Board.       Section
4      Shares Available for Awards .       4.1 Subject to Section 10.4 (relating to adjustments upon changes in
capitalization), as of any date, the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan, shall equal:      (a) 30,000,000 1  shares of Stock;      (b) reduced by the sum (without duplication) of:      (i) the number of shares of Stock subject to outstanding Awards;      (ii) the number of shares
of Stock in respect of which Awards have been exercised;      (iii) the number of shares of Stock issued without forfeiture or
similar restrictions or issued with forfeiture or similar restrictions which have lapsed;       

1    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan that was initially
approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section 4.1 or Section 10.4
after the Effective Date.            
   5   

(c) increased by the sum of:      (i) shares of Stock subject to previously granted Awards that have expired, terminated, or been canceled or forfeited for any reason
(other than by reason of exercise or vesting);      (ii) shares of Stock delivered or withheld (or deliverable or required to be
withheld as a condition of exercise of an Award) in payment of the exercise or purchase price of an Award granted under the Plan or under any other employee benefit plan of the Company.      4.2 Any rule set forth in Section 4.1 that is considered a  formula  under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange applicable to Morgan Stanley shall expire on and not be applied after the date
specified by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (which, as of the Amendment Date, is the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date). The expiration of any such rule shall not affect any calculation of shares of Stock available for delivery under
the Plan that was made while the rule was in effect.      4.3 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee may cancel any Award under the
Plan and issue a new Award in substitution therefor upon such terms as the Committee may in its sole discretion determine,  provided  that the substituted Award shall satisfy all applicable Plan requirements as of the date such new Award is
made. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of the Plan, in no event shall an Option or SAR be granted in substitution for a previously granted Option or SAR with the old Award being canceled or surrendered as a condition of receiving
the new Award, if the new Award would have a lower Option exercise price or SAR appreciation base than the Award it replaces. The foregoing is not intended to prevent equitable adjustment of Awards upon the occurrence of certain events as herein
provided, including without limitation, adjustments pursuant to Section 10.4.       Section 5      Persons Eligible for
Awards .       Awards under the Plan may be made to such employees of the Company as the Committee shall from time to time, in its sole
discretion, select.       Section 6      Types of Awards Under the Plan .       6.1  In General .      (a) Awards may be made under the
Plan in the form of:      (i) Options,      (ii) SARs,      (iii) Restricted Stock or Stock Units,      (iv) Other Stock-based Awards,      (v) Section 162(m) Awards; or      (vi) any other type of Award deemed by the Committee in its discretion to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, including but not limited to Awards granted in connection with or in lieu of awards or payments
under any other employee benefit plan or compensation arrangement of the Company (other than a plan qualified under Code Section 401(a) or an excess benefit plan related to a plan qualified under Section 401(a)) and Awards made to eligible
employees who are foreign nationals or are employed outside the United States.         
   6   

(b) Awards may be granted alone or in conjunction with one or more other Awards,  provided  that
Options intended to qualify as incentive stock options shall only be granted in compliance with Section 7.1 and applicable provisions of the Code.      (c) In granting an Award, including, without limitation, a Section 162(m) Award, the Committee may provide that, irrespective of whether an Award is denominated, in whole or in part, by reference to shares of
Stock, an Award may be paid at the election of the Committee or, if permitted by the Committee, the Participant, in whole or in part, in Stock, Stock Units, cash, Cash Units or other Awards.      (d) Awards under the Plan, including, without limitation, Section 162(m) Awards, may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made in substitution,
in whole or in part, for cash or other compensation that would otherwise become payable to an eligible individual. An Award Certificate may provide that an eligible individual may elect to receive one form of Award permitted under the Plan in lieu
of any other form of Award, or may elect to receive an Award under the Plan in lieu of all or part of any compensation which otherwise might have been paid to such eligible individual;  provided ,  however , that any such election shall
not require the Committee to make any Award to such eligible individual. Any such substitute or elective Awards shall have terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the Plan applicable to such Award.      6.2  Award Certificates .      The terms and conditions of
all Options, SARs and Section 162(m) Awards shall be set forth in Award Certificates. Other Awards granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by Award Certificates to the extent deemed necessary or desirable by the Committee. An Award
Certificate shall be signed by an officer of the Company (which signature may be in facsimile). The Company may, in its sole discretion, require a Participant to execute and return a copy of the Award Certificate to the Company as a condition of
receiving or retaining an Award or payment on account of an Award.      6.3  Dividend Equivalents .      With respect to any ordinary or regular dividend or distribution on shares of Stock corresponding to an Award other than an Option or a SAR, the
Committee may, in its discretion, authorize current or deferred payments (payable in cash, Stock, Stock Units or a combination thereof) or appropriate adjustments to the outstanding Award to reflect such ordinary or regular dividend or distribution,
including the reinvestment of ordinary or regular dividends into additional shares of Stock or Stock Units. The Committee may, in its discretion, make such payments subject to vesting, deferral, restrictions on transfer and other terms and
conditions. Any determination by the Committee with respect to a Participant s entitlement to receive any amounts related to ordinary or regular dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such
entitlement, if any, will be part of the terms and conditions of the Award, and will be set forth in the Award Certificate corresponding to such Award.      6.4  Deferred Compensation .      (a)  Plan Awards . The Committee may, in an Award Certificate or by appropriate action at
any time before an Award is vested, paid or exercised, give Participants the opportunity to defer the payment or settlement of the Award in accordance with procedures specified by the Committee. The Committee shall set forth in writing (which may be
in electronic form), on or before the date the applicable deferral election is required to be irrevocable in order to meet the requirements of Section  
       
   7   

409A, the conditions under which such election may be made. Notwithstanding any other authority granted to it, the Committee shall not have authority to
accelerate the payment or settlement of any Award granted under the Plan that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause
a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (b)  Other Deferred Compensation . The Committee shall determine whether or not an Award shall be made in conjunction with deferral of a
Participant s salary, bonus or other compensation, or any combination thereof and whether or not such deferred amounts may be:      (i) forfeited to the Company or, in the case of Awards other than Section 162(m) Awards, other Participants, or any combination thereof under certain circumstances (which may include but need not be limited to, certain types of
termination of employment or performance of services for the Company); and/or      (ii) subject to increase or decrease in value
based upon the attainment of, or failure to attain, respectively, certain performance measures.      6.5  Unfunded Status of Plan .      The Plan is intended to constitute an  unfunded and unsecured  plan for incentive compensation. With respect to any payments in either cash,
Stock that is not Restricted Stock or other property not yet made to a Participant by the Company, nothing herein contained shall give any Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. In its
sole discretion, the Committee may set aside assets (in trust or otherwise) to assist the Company in meeting its obligations under the Plan (either alone or in conjunction with one or more other compensation plans);  provided ,  however ,
that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements shall be consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.       Section 7    
 Options and SARs .       7.1  Options .      (a) Subject to Sections 7.8 and 7.9, the Committee may grant Options in such amounts and subject to such conditions as the Committee shall from time to time in its sole discretion determine, subject to the terms of the Plan. Such terms and
conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, restrictions on the transferability and the forfeiture of Stock acquired by a Participant upon the exercise of an Option. Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, no Option may
be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by the Participant.      (b) Each Award
Certificate relating to an Option shall specify whether the Option is a non-qualified stock option, is intended to be an incentive stock option described in Code section 422 or is intended to be any other type of option that may be described in the
Code. No Option shall be treated as an incentive stock or other tax-qualified option unless the Award Certificate specifically states that the Award is intended to be an incentive stock option or other tax-qualified option.      (c) In the case of incentive stock options, the terms and conditions of any such grant shall be subject to and comply with the requirements of Code
sections 421, 422 and 424, any regulations thereunder and any successors thereto, including, but not limited to, the requirement that such Options  
       
   8   

be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant, that no such Option shall be granted more than ten years after the date the
Board adopts the Plan nor exercisable more than ten years after the date of grant. In no event shall incentive stock options be granted under the Plan in respect of more than 20,000,000 2  shares of Stock, subject to adjustment under
Section 10.4. If an Option is intended to be an incentive stock option and if, for any reason, such Option shall fail to so qualify as an incentive stock option, such Option shall be considered to be a nonqualified stock option appropriately
granted under the Plan to the extent such Option meets the Plan s requirements applicable to nonqualified stock options.      7.2  Restoration Option
Rights .      (a) Subject to Sections 7.8 and 7.9, the Committee may grant to a Participant, as a feature of an Option (under this Plan) or
separately in connection with an option under any other plan of the Company (in either case, an   Original Option  ) a right to acquire Stock (a   Restoration Option Right  ) pursuant to which a Participant who pays the
exercise price of the Original Option by tendering shares of Stock shall automatically be granted an option (a   Restoration Option  ) to acquire a number of shares of Stock equal to the sum of: (i) the number of shares tendered
by the Participant to pay the exercise price; and (ii) the number of shares tendered by the Participant or, pursuant to the Participant s exercise of a tax withholding right described in Section 10.3(b)(ii), withheld by the Company
from the shares being acquired upon the exercise of the Original Option to pay income or other taxes required to be withheld from the Participant s compensation as a result of the exercise of the Original Option.      (b) The Committee may grant Restoration Option Rights in connection with an Original Option at the time the Original Option is granted or at any later
time on or before the date on which the Original Option is exercised.      (c) The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Award
Certificate that a Restoration Option shall not be granted or, if granted, shall not become exercisable, unless the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall, on the date of such grant or exercise, be equal to or exceed a minimum amount determined
by the Committee.      (d) The Restoration Option exercise price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the
Original Option s exercise date. Restoration Options shall be subject to the terms and provisions contained in the Plan and such other terms, conditions and limitations as the Committee shall determine from time to time regarding the
exercisability, forfeiture, payment provisions and other features of Restoration Options. All Restoration Options shall expire not later than the expiration date of the Original Option with respect to which the Restoration Option was granted.
     7.3  SARs .      (a)  Related SARs .
Subject to Sections 7.8 and 7.9, the Committee may grant a SAR in connection with all or any part of an Option granted under the Plan (a   Related SAR  ), either at the time the related Option is granted or any time thereafter prior
to the exercise, termination or cancellation of such Option, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall from time to time in its sole discretion determine, subject to the terms of the Plan. The grantee of a Related SAR shall,
subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate, have the right to surrender to the Company       

2    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for incentive stock options under the Plan that
was initially approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section 10.4 after
the Effective Date.            
   9   

for cancellation all or a portion of the related SAR granted under the Plan, but only to the extent that such related
Option is then exercisable, and to be paid therefor an amount equal to the excess (if any) of :      (i) the aggregate Fair
Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the related Option or portion thereof (determined as of the date of exercise of such Related SAR), over      (ii) the aggregate exercise price of the related Option or portion thereof.      (b)  Unrelated SARs .
Subject to Sections 7.8 and 7.9, the Committee may grant a SAR that is not connected with an Option (an   Unrelated SAR  ) in such amount and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall from time to time in its sole
discretion determine, subject to the terms of the Plan. The grantee of an Unrelated SAR shall, subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate, have the right to surrender to the Company for cancellation all or a portion of
such SAR, but only to the extent that such SAR is then exercisable, and to be paid therefor an amount equal to the excess (if any) of:      (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock underlying such SAR or portion thereof (determined as of the date of exercise of such SAR) over,      (ii) the aggregate appreciation base of the shares of Stock underlying such SAR or portion thereof.      (c) Payment due to a Participant upon exercise of a SAR shall be made in cash, Cash Units, Stock or Stock Units (Stock or Stock Units to be valued at the
Fair Market Value thereof as of the date of exercise), currently or deferred under Section 6.4, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion consistent with the relevant Award Certificate and the Plan.      7.4  Exercise of Related SAR Reduces Shares Subject to Option .      Upon any exercise of a Related SAR, or any portion thereof, the number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option shall be reduced by the number of shares of Stock in respect of which the Related SAR shall have
been exercised.      7.5  Exercisability of Options and SARs  . Subject to the other provisions of the Plan:      (a)  Exercisability Determined by Award Certificate . Each Award Certificate shall set forth the period during which and the conditions subject to
which the Option or SAR evidenced thereby shall be exercisable, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.      (b)  Exercise of
Related SAR . Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, a Related SAR shall be exercisable at any time during the period that the related Option may be exercised.      (c)  Partial Exercise Permitted . Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, an Option or SAR granted under the Plan may be
exercised from time to time as to all or part of the full number of shares as to which such Option or SAR shall then be exercisable.      (d)
 Notice of Exercise; Exercise Date .      (i) An Option or SAR shall be exercisable by the filing of a written notice of
exercise with the Company, on such form and in such manner (including in electronic form, such as by email or via a website) as the Committee shall in its sole discretion prescribe, and, in the case of an Option, by payment in accordance with
Section 7.6.         
   10   

(ii) Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, or the Committee in its
sole discretion otherwise determines, the date of exercise of an Option or SAR shall be the date the Company receives such written notice of exercise and payment.      7.6  Payment of Option Exercise Price  .      (a)  Tender Due Upon Notice of Exercise . Unless the applicable Award
Certificate otherwise provides or the Committee in its sole discretion otherwise determines, any written notice of exercise of an Option shall be accompanied by payment of the full purchase price for the shares being purchased.      (b)  Manner of Payment . Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award Certificate, the exercise price of the Option may be paid (i) in
cash, (ii) by actual delivery of, or attestation to ownership of, freely transferable Stock already owned by the person exercising the Option, (iii) by a combination of cash and Stock equal in value to the exercise price, (iv) through
net share settlement or similar procedure involving the withholding of Stock subject to the Option with a value equal to the exercise price, or (v) by such other means as the Company, in its discretion, may authorize. In accordance with the
rules and procedures authorized by the Company for this purpose, the Option may also be exercised through a  cashless exercise  procedure authorized by the Company that permits Participants to exercise Options by delivering a properly
executed exercise notice to the Company together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds necessary to pay the exercise price and the amount of any required tax or
other withholding obligations.      7.7  Proof of Beneficial Ownership .      Wherever in this Plan or any Award Certificate a Participant is permitted to pay the exercise price of an Award or taxes relating to the exercise of an Award by delivering shares of Stock, the Participant may, subject
to procedures satisfactory to the Committee, satisfy such delivery requirement by presenting proof of beneficial ownership of such shares of Stock, in which case the Company shall treat the Award as exercised without further payment and shall
withhold such number of shares from the shares acquired by the exercise of the Award (or if the Award is paid in cash, cash in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares).      7.8  Maximum Number of Shares Subject to Awards .        Grants of Options and SARs to any Participant in any five consecutive calendar years may not be made with respect to more than 3,000,000 3  shares of Stock, subject to adjustment under Section 10.4.     
  7.9  Exercise Price, Base Appreciation Price and Expiration Date .      No Option or SAR shall be granted hereunder at an exercise or base appreciation price, as the case may be, lower than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the grant date thereof and no Option or SAR
granted hereunder shall remain exercisable for more than 10 years after the grant date thereof.       

3    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Options and SARs that may be granted to any
Participant in five consecutive calendar years that was initially approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that
were made in accordance with Section 10.4 after the Effective Date.            
   11   

Section 8      Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards .       8.1  Grant of Awards .      The Committee may grant Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Awards, alone or in tandem with any other Award made under the Plan or any other award made under any other plan or arrangement of the Company, in such amounts
and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall from time to time in its sole discretion determine and set forth in an Award Certificate;  provided ,  however , that the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which
the aggregate of Awards under Sections 8 and 9 of the Plan may vest shall not exceed 10,000,000 4 , subject to adjustment under Section 10.4. The vesting and payment of a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan may
be conditioned upon (i) the completion of a specified period of employment with the Company, (ii) the attainment of specified performance goals, and/or (iii) such other criteria as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.
The forfeiture of a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award shall be governed by such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Award Certificate.      8.2
 Payment .      Each Award Certificate with respect to a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award shall set forth the amount (if any) to be
paid by the Participant with respect to such Award. If a Participant makes any payment to the Company (other than for taxes) for a Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Award which does not vest, a refund of such payment may be made to the Participant
following the forfeiture of such Award on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Any payment required to be made by a Participant shall be made in a form described in Section 7.6(b).      8.3  Issuance of Shares .      The Committee may provide
that one or more certificates or other evidence of ownership representing Restricted Stock Awards shall be registered in the Participant s name and bear an appropriate legend specifying that such shares are not transferable and are subject to
the terms and conditions of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate, or that such certificate or certificates shall be held in escrow by the Company on behalf of the Participant until such shares vest or are forfeited, all on such terms and
conditions as the Committee may determine. Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, no share of Restricted Stock may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by the Participant
until such share has vested in accordance with the terms of such Award.      8.4  Participants  Rights Regarding Restricted Stock and Stock Units .
     Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides: (i) a Participant may vote and receive dividends on Restricted Stock
awarded under the Plan; and (ii) any Stock received as a distribution with respect to shares of Restricted Stock (or credited to an Award of Stock Units) shall be subject to the same restrictions as such shares of Restricted Stock (or Stock
Units).       

4    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under Sections 8 and 9 of the Plan
that was initially approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section 4.1 or
Section 10.4 after the Effective Date.            
   12   

Section 9      Other Stock-Based Awards .       9.1 The Committee may grant other Awards of Stock and Awards that are valued, in whole or in part, by reference to,
or are otherwise based on, the Fair Market Value of Stock (  Other Stock-Based Awards  ) under such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine;  provided ,  however , that that the total number of shares of Stock
with respect to which the aggregate of Awards under Sections 8 and 9 of the Plan may vest shall not exceed 10,000,000, 5  subject to adjustment under Section 10.4.      9.2 The Committee may grant Other Stock-Based Awards alone or in addition to any other Awards made under the Plan or any awards made under any other plan or arrangement of the Company. Subject to the provisions of the
Plan, the Committee shall have sole and absolute discretion to determine to whom and when such Other Stock-Based Awards will be made, the number of shares of Stock to be Awarded under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-Based Awards and all
other terms and conditions of such Awards. The Committee shall determine whether Other Stock-Based Awards shall be denominated in Stock, Stock Units, cash, Cash Units or a combination thereof, or settled on a deferred basis pursuant to
Section 6.4.      9.3 The Company, in its discretion, may provide that a Participant may vote or receive dividends or dividend equivalents on Other
Stock-Based Awards awarded under the Plan.       Section 10      Miscellaneous .       10.1  Amendment of the Plan; Modification of Awards .      (a) The Board or the Committee may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan, or any portion thereof, at any time, and may modify or amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award (including by amending or
supplementing the relevant Award Certificate at any time),  provided  that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made without shareholder approval to the extent such approval is necessary to comply
with any tax or regulatory requirement, including but not limited to any approval requirement which is a prerequisite for exemptive relief from Section 16(b) of the Act, necessary to qualify Awards granted hereunder as performance-based
compensation for purposes of Code section 162(m) or necessary to satisfy listing or other requirements of any self-regulatory organization (provided that the Company is subject to the requirements of Section 16 of the Act, Code
Section 162(m) or the jurisdiction of such self-regulatory organization, as the case may be, as of the date of such action). No amendment to the Plan or an Award shall materially impair any rights under an Award previously made without the
consent of the affected Participant;  provided ,  however , that the Company may, without a Participant s consent, amend or modify the Plan or any Award under the Plan in any manner that the Company considers necessary or advisable to
comply with any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision or accounting standards or to ensure that Awards granted under the Plan are not subject to United States federal, state or local income tax or any equivalent taxes in territories outside the
United States prior to payment.       

5    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under Sections 8 and 9 of the Plan
that was initially approved by the Board and the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section 4.1 or
Section 10.4 after the Effective Date.            
   13   

(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (including Section 10.1(a)), the Board or the
Committee shall have the right to amend outstanding Awards including, without limitation, any amendment which would:      (i)
accelerate the time or times at which an Award may vest or become exercisable; and/or      (ii) extend the scheduled termination
or expiration date of the Award;       provided ,  however , that no amendment having a material adverse effect upon the interest of a Participant in
an Award shall be made without the consent of such Participant; and  provided ,  further , that the Committee shall not have any such right to the extent it is prohibited by Section 409A, or the existence of such right would result in
a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of an Award or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under
Section 409A.      (c)  Section 409A . Any discretionary authority that the Committee may have pursuant to the Plan shall not be
applicable to an Award that is subject to Section 409A to the extent such discretionary authority is prohibited by Section 409A, or would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax
purposes prior to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of an Award or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      10.2  Consent Requirements .      If the Committee shall at any time determine that any Consent is
necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award under the Plan, the acquisition, issuance or purchase of Stock or other rights hereunder or the taking of any other action hereunder (each such action being
hereinafter referred to as a   Plan Action  ), then such Plan Action shall not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such Consent shall have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee.      10.3  Withholding Taxes; Satisfaction of Obligations .      (a) As a condition to the making or retention of any Award, the vesting, exercise or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, the Company may require a Participant to pay such sum to the Company as may be
necessary to discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA tax) imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any other
obligation that the Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by the Company, such payment may be in the form of cash or other property, including the tender of previously owned Shares. Whenever cash is to
be paid under the Plan (whether upon the exercise of a SAR or otherwise), the Company may, as a condition of its payment, deduct therefrom, or from any salary or other payments due to the Participant other than payments of amounts that constitute
deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, an amount sufficient to enable the Company to satisfy all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges related thereto. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by the Company, in
satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental charges, the Company may make available for delivery a lesser number of Shares in payment or settlement of an Award or permit a Participant to tender previously owned Shares to satisfy
such withholding obligation.      (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if authorized by the Committee:      (i) a Participant may elect to satisfy all or part of the foregoing withholding requirements by delivery of unrestricted shares of Stock
owned by the Participant for such period  
       
   14   

of time as may be required to avoid a charge to the Company s earnings for financial statement purposes (as determined by the Company) having a Fair
Market Value (determined as of the date of such delivery by the Participant) equal to all or part of the amount to be so withheld,  provided  that the Company may require, as a condition of accepting any such delivery, the Participant to
furnish an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Company to the effect that such delivery would not result in the Participant incurring any liability under Section 16(b) of the Act and does not require any Consent; and      (ii) the Committee may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may in its discretion determine, grant rights
( withholding rights ) under the Plan to have the Company withhold from the receipt of proceeds on the settlement or exercise of any Award a number of shares of Stock of sufficient Fair Market Value (x) to pay the amount of taxes the
Company is required to collect or withhold on the settlement or exercise of the Award or (y) exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, to satisfy any other obligation
that a Participant owes to the Company. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not withhold from the proceeds on settlement or exercise of such Award amounts that a Participant
owes to the Company in respect of any such other obligation except to the extent such withholding is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the
time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A. Withholding rights shall be exercised simultaneously with the exercise or receipt of an Award, giving rise to a tax withholding obligation. Shares of Stock
withheld shall be deemed to have been delivered to the Company on the exercise or Award date, as appropriate.      10.4  Adjustments Upon Changes in
Capitalization .      The number of shares of Stock which may be issued pursuant to Awards under the Plan, the maximum number of Options
and/or unrelated SARs which may be granted to any one person in any period, the maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which the aggregate of Awards made under Sections 8 and 9 may vest, the number of shares of Stock that may be subject
to incentive stock options, the number of shares of Stock subject to Awards, the exercise price and appreciation base of Options and SARs granted under the Plan, the maximum number of shares of Stock which may be paid pursuant to a
Section 162(m) Award, the amount payable by a Participant in respect of an Award and any appropriate feature of any Other Stock-Based Award (i) shall be equitably adjusted for any change in the number of issued shares of Stock resulting
from the subdivision or combination of shares of Stock or other capital adjustments, or the payment of a stock dividend after the effective date of the Plan, or other change in such shares of Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the
Company and (ii) shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the payment of an extraordinary cash dividend or the spinoff of a portion of the Company after the Amendment Date;  provided ,  however , that any Awards covering fractional
shares of Stock resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated; and  provided ,  further , that no Option granted under the Plan shall be adjusted in a manner that causes such Option to fail to continue to qualify as an
 incentive stock option  within the meaning of Code section 422 (and no Section 162(m) Award shall be adjusted pursuant to this Section 10.4 in a manner that causes such Award to fail to meet the requirements of Code section
162(m)).      10.5  No Right of Employment or Continued Participation .      Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Certificate shall confer upon any person the right to continue in the employment or other service of the Company or a Subsidiary or affect any right which  
       
   15   

the Company may have to terminate the employment or other service of such person. Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon any person a claim or right to the
grant of an Award.      10.6  No Rights as a Stockholder .      Except as otherwise provided in an applicable Award Certificate, no Participant or other person shall have any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to shares of Stock subject to an Award until
the issuance of such Stock to the Participant for such shares or, in the case of a Restricted Stock Award granting dividend and/or voting rights to the Participant, to the escrow agent, custodian or trustee designated to hold such shares. Except as
otherwise provided in an applicable Award Certificate or in Section 10.4, or with respect to Restricted Stock, no adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights (whether ordinary or extraordinary, and whether in cash,
securities or other property) for which the record date is prior to the date such Stock is issued.      10.7  Nature of Payments .      (a) Any and all Awards or payments hereunder shall be granted, issued, delivered or paid, as the case may be, in consideration of services performed or
to be performed for the Company by the Participant.      (b) All Awards and payments granted or made hereunder shall be considered special
incentive or retention payments to the Participant. Except as specifically provided in such plan or agreement, no Awards or payments shall be taken into account in computing the Participant s salary or compensation for the purposes of
determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, life insurance or other benefit plan of the Company or any agreement between the Company and the Participant.      (c) By exercising or accepting payment of an Award under the Plan, the Participant shall thereby waive any claim to continued exercise or vesting of an Award or to damages or severance entitlement related to
non-continuation of the Award beyond the period provided herein or in the applicable Award Certificate, notwithstanding any contrary provision in any written employment contract with the Participant, whether any such contract is executed before or
after the grant date of the Award.      10.8  Non-Uniform Determinations .      The Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are
similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Certificates, as to:
     (a) the persons receiving Awards under the Plan, and      (b) the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan.      10.9  Other Payments or Awards .      Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed in any way to limit or restrict the Company, or the Committee, from making any Award or payment to any
person under any other plan, arrangement or understanding, whether now existing or hereafter in effect.         
   16   

10.10  Change in Control .      The Committee may, in its discretion, include in any Award Certificate a provision pursuant to which the Award will become exercisable, vest, be paid, have restrictions on the Stock underlying the Award removed, be
canceled or forfeited, be replaced or otherwise become subject to special vesting, exercise and forfeiture rules upon the occurrence of a  change in control  or  change in ownership  (as such terms are defined by the Committee
from time to time);  provided ,  however , that to the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Committee shall not provide for accelerated payment of such Award unless such change in control
or change in ownership constitutes a change in control event for purposes of Section 409A.      10.11  Section Headings .      The section headings contained herein are for the purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the contents of said sections.
     10.12  Effective Date .      The Plan
became effective upon the approval thereof by the stockholders of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) on May 28, 1997 (the   Effective Date  ).      10.13  Governing Law .      The Plan shall be governed by
the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such state.      10.14  Plan Expenses .      The expenses of the Plan shall be borne by the Company.      10.15  Related Employment .      With respect to Awards granted prior to the Amendment Date that do not constitute a deferral of
compensation subject to Section 409A, or which constitute such a deferral of compensation but do not provide for payment or settlement of the Award upon termination of employment, (i) the commencement of Related Employment by a Participant
shall not be treated, for purposes of the Plan and such Award, as a termination of employment, and (ii) the Retirement, Disability or death of an individual during a period of Related Employment shall be treated, for purposes of the Plan and
such Award, as if such event had occurred while the individual was an employee of the Company. For any Award granted prior to the Amendment Date that is not described in the preceding sentence, the commencement of Related Employment by a Participant
shall be treated as a termination of employment if it constitutes a separation from service with the Participant s employer for purposes of Section 409A.         
   17   

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.17>
 7
 dex1017.htm
 AMENDMENT TO MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN

Amendment to Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated Excess Benefit Plan 

Exhibit 10.17        AMENDMENT TO        EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN       Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated Excess Benefit
Plan, effective as of the date set forth herein, as follows:      1. Effective April 1, 2007, Section III, Participation in the Plan, is
amended by adding the following at the end of the first paragraph thereof:       In addition, if an employee was not a Participant
immediately before the merger of Morgan Stanley DW Inc. with and into Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated as of April 1, 2007, such employee shall not be eligible to become a Participant hereunder as a result of such merger or
otherwise.       * * * * * * * *      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of
the 20 th  day of November, 2007.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
  /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY   
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources   

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.19>
 8
 dex1019.htm
 AMENDMENT TO SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 

Exhibit 10.19        AMENDMENT TO        SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN       Pursuant to the authority granted to it by Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the
Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  SERP ), effective as of such dates set forth herein, as follows:      1.
Effective April 1, 2007, Section III, Participation in the Plan, is amended by adding the following to the end thereof:       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an employee was not a participant or eligible to become a Participant immediately before the merger of Morgan Stanley DW Inc. with and into Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated as of
April 1, 2007, such employee shall not be eligible to become a Participant hereunder as a result of such merger or otherwise.       2.
Effective April 1, 2007, Appendix C, Provisions Relating to Certain Employees, is amended by adding the following to the end thereof:        Morgan Stanley DW Inc. and Subsidiaries . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an employee was not a participant or eligible to become a Participant immediately before the merger of Morgan Stanley DW Inc. with and into Morgan
Stanley   Co. Incorporated as of April 1, 2007, such employee shall not be eligible to become a Participant hereunder as a result of such merger or otherwise.       * * * * * * * *      IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of the 20 th  day of November, 2007.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
  /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY   
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources   

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.22>
 9
 dex1022.htm
 AMENDMENT TO 1995 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

Amendment to 1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.22        A MENDMENT   TO   THE  M ORGAN  S TANLEY         1995 E QUITY  I NCENTIVE  C OMPENSATION  P LAN ,        D ATED 
N OVEMBER  26, 2007       Sections 12(d), 12(f) and 16(a) of the Morgan Stanley 1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended, are
amended in their entirety to read as follows:       
    (d) In accordance with the procedures specified
by, and subject to the approval of, the Committee, Participants may be given the opportunity to defer the payment or settlement of an Award to one or more dates selected by the Participant. The Committee shall set forth in writing (which may be in
electronic form), on or before the date the applicable deferral election is required to be irrevocable in order to meet the requirements of Section 409A, the conditions under which such election may be made. In connection with such deferral,
the Committee may provide that Awards so deferred may be credited with a notional return during the period of deferral based upon the corresponding return on one or more investments designated by the Committee or elected by the Participant in
accordance with the procedures established by the Committee for this purpose. Notwithstanding any other authority granted to it, the Committee shall not have authority to accelerate the payment or settlement of any Award granted under the Plan that
constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax
purposes prior to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A      (f) The vesting,
exercisability, payment and other restrictions applicable to an Award (which may include, without limitation, restrictions on transferability or provision for mandatory resale to the Company) shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the
applicable Award Agreement or Award Certificate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may accelerate (i) the vesting of any Award, (ii) the payment of any Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to
Section 409A (iii) the lapse of restrictions on any Award (including a Stock Award) or (iv) the date on which any Option or SAR first becomes exercisable. The Committee may not accelerate the payment of any Award that constitutes a
deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the
time of payment, settlement or exercise of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A. The date of a Participant s termination of employment for any reason shall be determined in the sole discretion of the
Committee; provided, however, that to the extent full or partial payment of any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A is made upon or as a result of a Participant s termination of employment, the
Participant will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment if, and only if, the Participant has experienced a separation from service with the Participant s employer for purposes of Section 409A. The Committee shall
also have full authority to determine and specify in the applicable Award Agreement or Award  
       
   1   

Certificate the effect, if any, that a Participant s termination of employment for any reason will have on the vesting, exercisability, payment or lapse
of restrictions applicable to an outstanding Award.       

16.   
   Miscellaneous Provisions         (a) As a condition to the making of any
Award, the vesting or payment of any Award or the lapse of the restrictions pertaining thereto (including those related to the exercise of an Option or SAR), the Company may require the Participant to pay such sum to the Company as may be necessary
to discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award. In accordance with rules and procedures established by
the Committee and, in the discretion of the Committee, such payment may be in the form of cash or other property. In accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee, in satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental
charges the Company may, in the discretion of the Committee, (i) make available for delivery a lesser number of Shares in payment or settlement of an Award, (ii) permit a Participant to tender previously owned Shares to satisfy such
withholding obligation, or (iii) deduct or withhold from any payment or distribution to a Participant in respect of such Award or from any other payment or distribution to a Participant, whether or not pursuant to the Plan, that is not made in
respect of a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A.         
   2   

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.33>
 10
 dex1033.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY BRANCH MANAGER COMPENSATION PLAN

Morgan Stanley Branch Manager Compensation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.33        MORGAN STANLEY        BRANCH MANAGER COMPENSATION PLAN       (Amended and Restated as of November 26, 2007)       SECTION I        INTRODUCTION       The name of this plan is the Morgan Stanley Branch Manager Compensation Plan (the    Plan   ). The Plan was initially adopted for Fiscal Years beginning with 1984; was amended and restated on December 23, 1985
retroactive to 1984; was amended as of December 8, 1986, January 1, 1988, December 23, 1990, and July 15, 1991; was amended and restated January 1, 1992; was amended and restated as of April 21, 1992,
retroactive to January 1, 1992; was amended and restated effective October 1, 1993; was amended effective January 1, 1994; was amended and restated effective January 1, 1994; was amended and restated effective October 21,
1994; was amended effective June 18, 1997; was amended effective September 25, 1998; was amended effective September 21, 1999; was amended effective December 9, 1999; was amended effective March 26, 2001; was amended
effective December 11, 2001; was amended in October 2005; and was amended and restated effective November 27, 2006 (the    Effective Date   ).       SECTION II        PURPOSE OF PLAN       The purpose of the Plan is to retain and recruit key Branch Managers for MSDW.       SECTION III        DEFINITIONS       Unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, capitalized terms used herein without definition have the
meanings set forth below.       

(a)  
     Account    means a bookkeeping account maintained in a confidential ledger by MSDW pursuant to Section VI of the Plan for each Participant granted a cash
Award under the Plan.         

(b)  
     Administrator    has the meaning set forth in Section IX(b).         

(c)  
     Agreement    has the meaning set forth in Section VIII(a).         

(d)  
     Award    means any award of deferred cash, Stock or Stock Units granted pursuant to Section V(c)(3) or V(d) of the Plan.     

(e)  
     Award Certificate    means a written document (including in electronic form) that sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Certificates shall be
authorized by the Committee and signed by an officer on behalf of Morgan Stanley (which signature may be in facsimile).         

(f)  
     Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.         

(g)  
     Branch Manager    means an Employee performing the functions of that position for MSDW. For purposes of the Plan,  Branch Manager  shall also mean a
Satellite Manager, unless otherwise specified in the Plan.         

(h)  
     Branch Office    means any branch office of MSDW.         

(i)  
     Committee    means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of
the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.         

(j)  
     Company    means Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries.         

(k)  
     Custodian    has the meaning set forth in Section VI(c).         

(l)  
     Deferred Bonus    has the meaning set forth in Section V(c)(3).         

(m)  
  In respect of each Award granted prior to the Effective Date,    Disability    means termination of employment from MSDW due to a medically determinable physical
or mental incapacity which is reasonably expected to be of long-term duration or result in death. In respect of each Award granted on or after the Effective Date,    Disability    shall have the meaning determined by the
Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. The determination of MSDW shall be conclusive on all parties as to whether a participant is Disabled.         

(n)  
     Employee    means an employee of MSDW.         

(o)  
  In respect of each Award granted prior to the Effective Date,    Fair Market Value    means:        (1) for purposes of determining the number of shares of Stock to be allocated pursuant to Section VII(b)(1) to an Award granted pursuant
to Section V, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Board or the Committee; and      (2) for purposes of crediting a Participant pursuant to Section VII(b)(3) with shares of Stock based upon cash dividends paid or deemed to
be paid on shares of Stock credited to the Participant as of the record date for such dividends, the average of the high and low sales prices, regular way, of a share of Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape (the
   High/Low Price   ) on the relevant dividend payment date, or, if Stock is not traded on public markets on the relevant dividend payment date, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;
 provided ,  however , that in the event a  Fair  
       
   2   

Market Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in
accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee; and      (3) for purposes of distributing cash in lieu of a
fractional share pursuant to Section VII(b)(1), the High/Low Price on the date of the distribution, or, if Stock is not traded on public markets on the date of the distribution, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;
provided, however, that in the event a  Fair Market Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology
approved by the Committee; and      (4) for such other purposes as may arise in connection with the Plan, the fair market value
of a share of Stock as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.      In respect of each Award granted on or after the Effective Date,    Fair Market Value    means, with respect to a share of Stock, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in
accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.       

(p)  
     Fiscal Year    means the fiscal year of Morgan Stanley.         

(q)  
     MIC    means the Branch Manager Management Incentive Compensation Plan.         

(a)  
     Morgan Stanley    means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.         

(r)  
     MSDW    means Morgan Stanley DW Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto (including, without limitation, any successor by merger).

(s)  
     Net Income After Allocated Expense    means the Branch Office monthly gross revenue less all expenses charged to such Branch Office, both direct and
allocated, before accrual of income taxes and the Branch Manager s MIC credit as reflected in the statements of revenue and expense prepared by MSDW in accordance with its standard accounting practices.         

(t)  
     Non-Producing Branch Manager    means a Branch Manager who does not personally produce gross revenues for MSDW through the sale of securities and other
investments to clients of MSDW.         

(u)  
     Office Gross Revenue    means the gross revenue generated in a Fiscal Year by a Branch Office as reflected in the statements of revenue and expense prepared
by MSDW in accordance with its standard accounting practices.         

(v)  
     Participant    means an Employee to whom an Award has been granted pursuant to Section V(c)(3) or Section V(d) of the Plan.         

(w)  
     Payment Obligation    has the meaning set forth in Section VIII(a).           
   3   

(x)  
     Producing Branch Manager    means a Branch Manager who personally produces gross revenues for MSDW through the sale of securities and other investments to
clients of MSDW.         

(y)  
     Profit Margin    means the Branch Office Net Income After Allocated Expense divided by the Branch Office Total Gross Income.         

(z)  
     Regional Director    means an Employee performing the functions of that position for MSDW.         

(aa)  
  In respect of each Award granted prior to the Effective Date,    Related Employment    means the employment of a Participant by an employer other than MSDW,
 provided  that: (1) such employment is undertaken by the individual at the request or with the consent of MSDW; (2) immediately prior to undertaking such employment, the individual was an Employee or was engaged in Related Employment
as defined herein; and (3) such employment is recognized by MSDW, in its discretion, as Related Employment. In respect of each Award granted on or after the Effective Date,    Related Employment    shall have the meaning
determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         

(bb)  
  In respect of each Award granted prior to the Effective Date,    Retirement    means termination of employment from MSDW (i) after attaining age 65,
(ii) as defined in the Morgan Stanley DW Inc. Pension Plan whether or not the individual is a participant therein, or (iii) as otherwise specified by written agreement between MSDW and a Branch Manager. In respect of each Award granted on
or after the Effective Date,    Retirement    shall have the meaning determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         

(cc)  
     Satellite Manager    means the manager of a satellite sales office of MSDW.         

(dd)  
     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor
provisions thereto).         

(ee)  
     Stock    means the common stock of Morgan Stanley, par value $.01 per share.         

(ff)  
     Stock Unit    means a general, unsecured obligation of Morgan Stanley to deliver one share of Stock (or the value thereof) to a Participant pursuant to an
Award recorded by the Company as a bookkeeping entry, subject to conditions determined by the Committee pursuant to Section V.         

(gg)  
     Total Gross Income    means the monthly gross income generated by a Branch Office as reflected in the statements of revenue and expense prepared by MSDW in
accordance with its standard accounting practices.         SECTION IV        ELIGIBILITY       All Branch Managers shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
The Committee shall determine the eligibility criteria applicable for each Award granted under the Plan.         
   4   

SECTION V        COMPENSATION        

(a)  
    Salaries  . Salary levels for Branch Managers shall be established each year by MSDW in its sole discretion taking into account such factors as Office Gross Revenue for
each Branch Manager s respective Branch Office and/or such other factors as MSDW may determine. The criteria for determining Branch Manager salaries on an annual basis may be the same or different for Non-Producing Branch Managers, Producing
Branch Managers and/or Satellite Managers. Salaries shall be paid in cash on a periodic basis throughout each Fiscal Year. Salary payments will cease immediately upon termination of employment.         

(b)  
    MIC Award  . Branch Managers may be eligible for an MIC award to be based on a formula which shall be determined by MSDW from time to time. A Branch Manager s MIC
award shall be based on the monthly Profit Margin of his or her respective Branch Office. However, in the event of a Branch Office loss, such loss shall be carried forward to succeeding months and shall be used to reduce the monthly Profit Margin in
such succeeding months in calculating MIC awards until such losses shall have been offset in whole by the Branch Office s Profit Margins in successive months of the same Fiscal Year. The amount of any Branch Manager s MIC award may be
increased at any time by MSDW in its sole discretion. MIC awards shall be paid in cash.         

(c)  
    Challenge Bonuses Awarded Under the Plan  .        (1) Branch Managers may, in the discretion of MSDW, also be eligible for a Challenge Bonus under the Plan for a Fiscal Year. The Challenge Bonus will be based on the achievement of challenge goals agreed to between
each Branch Manager and his or her Regional Director at the beginning of the Fiscal Year for which such Challenge Bonus is being awarded. The Regional Director shall establish a target Challenge Bonus for a Branch Manager at such time as challenge
goals are agreed to with each Branch Manager.      (2) MSDW, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether a Branch Manager
has achieved and/or exceeded the challenge goals agreed to between the Branch Manager and Regional Director. If MSDW determines that a Branch Manager has exceeded the challenge goals agreed to between the Branch Manager and the Regional Director, it
may award a Challenge Bonus up to two times the target Challenge Bonus. If a Branch Manager has not achieved the challenge goals for a Fiscal Year agreed to between the Branch Manager and the Regional Director, the Branch Manager may receive a
Challenge Bonus that is less than the target Challenge Bonus, in an amount determined solely by MSDW.      (3) With respect to
any Challenge Bonus awarded under the Plan prior to the Effective Date, MSDW shall pay 80% of the Challenge Bonus in cash as soon as practicable following the end of the Fiscal Year in which the Challenge Bonus is earned. The remaining 20% (the
   Deferred Bonus   ), will be granted in the form of an Award of Stock in accordance with Section VII and subject to  Appendix A . Challenge Bonuses awarded under the Plan on or after the Effective Date may be paid in the
form of cash or granted in the form of cash Awards, Awards of Stock or Stock Units or any combination thereof. The Committee shall determine, in its discretion, the portion, if any, of any Challenge Bonus awarded under the Plan on or after the
Effective Date that will be granted in the form of Awards of Stock or Stock Units.         
   5   

(d)  
    Other Awards  .        (1) The
Committee may establish the criteria which will entitle a Branch Manager to receive an Award under the Plan for a given Fiscal Year. A Branch Manager who achieves such criteria in a Fiscal Year shall receive an Award for that Fiscal Year. Any Awards
granted pursuant to this Section V(d)(1) prior to the Effective Date shall be made subject to the same terms and conditions as Deferred Bonuses granted under Section V(c)(3) prior to the Effective Date and shall be Payment Obligations for purposes
of Section VIII.      (2) The Committee, may, in its discretion from time to time, make to an individual, in consideration of
such individual becoming a Branch Manager, remaining a Branch Manager or such other consideration as the Committee may determine, an Award on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, which terms and conditions need not be uniform
with the terms and conditions of Section VI, VII or VIII hereof.       

(e)  
    Awards Generally  . Awards granted under this Section V on or after the Effective Date shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including, without limitation,
vesting requirements, cancellation provisions and transfer restrictions, established by the Committee, in its sole discretion, in connection with the Award. The Committee shall also have full authority to determine and specify in the applicable
Award Certificate the effect, if any, that a Participant s termination of employment for any reason will have on the vesting, payment or lapse of restrictions applicable to an Award granted on or after the Effective Date. The terms and
conditions of each Award granted on or after the Effective Date shall be set forth in an Award Certificate delivered or made available by Morgan Stanley to the Participant following the date of grant of the Award.         

(f)   
      Plan Limit  . The total number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to Awards granted under the
Plan is 500,000 1 . Shares delivered under the Plan may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares that Morgan Stanley acquires in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise. The Committee shall equitably adjust the
number and kind of shares authorized for delivery under the Plan in the event of a stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, merger, acquisition, reorganization, spinoff or similar equity restructuring transaction. In connection with
any of the foregoing events, the Committee shall equitably adjust outstanding Awards, including, if necessary, by adjusting the number and kind of shares subject to any outstanding Award.          

1    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan that was initially
approved by the Board of Directors of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section V(f) after the date of such approval.
           
   6   

SECTION VI        ACCOUNTS - ESCROW AGENT        

(a)  
  A separate Account shall be maintained by MSDW in a confidential ledger for each Participant granted a cash Award by the Company for each Fiscal Year. Each such Account shall be
credited with the amount of cash Awards granted to the Participant pursuant to Section V of the Plan. Each such Account shall be decreased by any (i) payments of such Awards, or (ii) forfeitures of such Awards pursuant to Section VII.

(b)  
  Within a reasonable time after the end of each Fiscal Year, the Controller of Morgan Stanley shall give each Participant a written report of the status of such Participant s
Account under the Plan, including the value thereof. For each Fiscal Year, Accounts shall be valued as of the last day of the Fiscal Year.         

(c)  
  As a condition to participation in the Plan, each eligible Employee shall be required to hold Stock corresponding to Awards of Stock granted under the Plan in an escrow account and
such Employee s participation in the Plan shall constitute the appointment of such custodian as the Company shall designate (the    Custodian   ) as the custodial agent for the purpose of holding such Stock. Such escrow
account will be governed by and subject to the terms and conditions of a written agreement with the Custodian.         SECTION VII
       AWARD PAYMENTS        

(a)  
  In order to be entitled to any payment of an MIC award or cash Challenge Bonus granted under the Plan, an Employee must be employed by MSDW on the date such MIC award or cash
Challenge Bonus is paid. If any Employee terminates employment after any such MIC award or cash Challenge Bonus is or becomes determinable but before such MIC award or cash Challenge Bonus granted under the Plan is actually paid by MSDW in the
normal course of business, the Employee shall not be entitled to receive any such payment.         

(b)  
  The following provisions shall apply to Awards granted under the Plan prior to the Effective Date:        (1) Deferred Bonuses will be granted in the form of Awards of Stock, payable as soon as practicable following the close of the Fiscal Year
for which the Award is granted. For purposes of determining the number of shares of Stock that constitutes a Deferred Bonus, the Stock may be valued at a discount, determined by the Committee, from Fair Market Value. Awards under Section V(d) may be
paid in cash or granted in the form of Awards of Stock as determined by the Committee. The number of shares of Stock payable with respect to a Deferred Bonus shall be calculated by reference to the amount of the Deferred Bonus determined under
Section V. Deferred Bonuses granted in the form of Awards of Stock shall be paid in the form of whole shares and cash in lieu of any fractional share. A Participant on a leave of absence approved by MSDW or who is absent due to Disability on the
date payment is made shall not be entitled to payment of such Deferred Bonus until the Participant returns to MSDW following completion of such leave of absence or Disability.         
   7   

(2) Stock awarded with respect to a Fiscal Year shall vest four years and three months
following the close of that Fiscal Year, provided that the Participant s status as an Employee has not been terminated prior to such date. Upon the Participant s termination of employment with MSDW, all unvested Stock shall be forfeited.
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant terminates employment with MSDW due to Disability or Retirement, or upon a Participant s death, all of the Participant s Awards shall vest immediately and be paid as
promptly as practicable.      (3) A Participant may vote and receive dividends on any Award of Stock awarded to such Participant
under Section VII(b)(1) or credited under this Section VII(b)(3);  provided  that all dividends on such Stock (other than dividends payable in Stock) shall be reinvested in shares of Stock at 100% of the Fair Market Value of Stock which shares
shall be credited to the Participant and held by the Custodian. All shares of Stock received as a distribution with respect to an Award of Stock or acquired with reinvested dividends under this Section VII(b)(3) shall be subject to the same
restrictions as the Award of Stock on which such distribution or dividend is awarded.      (4) Except as provided in this
Section VII(b), payments made hereunder shall be made in cash and shall not be eligible for rollover or transfer into other retirement or deferred compensation plans sponsored by MSDW, Morgan Stanley or any of their affiliates.      (5) A Participant shall be entitled to payment of his or her Account pursuant to this Section VII(b) provided the Participant is employed
by MSDW at the time such payment is due, regardless of the position in which the Participant is employed at such time.       

(c)  
  The following provisions shall apply to Awards granted under the Plan on or after the Effective Date:        (1) Awards may be made in cash, Stock, Stock Units or any combination thereof, as determined by the Committee. The number of shares of
Stock payable with respect to an Award granted on or after the Effective Date shall be determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee and such Awards shall be subject to the conditions to payment determined by the
Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.      (2) If Morgan Stanley pays any ordinary or regular dividend or
makes any ordinary or regular distribution to holders of Stock, the Committee may in its discretion authorize payments (which may be in cash, Stock (including restricted Stock) or Stock Units or any combination thereof) with respect to the shares
corresponding to an Award, or may authorize appropriate adjustments to outstanding Awards, to reflect such dividend or distribution. The Committee may make any such payments subject to vesting, deferral or restrictions on transfer. Any determination
by the Committee with respect to a Participant s entitlement to receive any amounts related to ordinary or regular dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such entitlement, if any, will be part of
the terms and conditions of the Award, and will be set forth in the Award Certificate corresponding to such Award.         
   8   

(d)  
  In accordance with the provisions of  Appendix A  to the Plan, if MSDW must recover a Payment Obligation that was made subject to  Appendix A  and was previously paid to a
Participant pursuant to this Section VII, the Participant shall be required to repay such amount. With respect to Awards of Stock or Stock Units, the Participant shall be required to repay the number of shares of Stock received (or an amount in cash
equal to the fair market value of such Stock as of the date of such repayment, as determined by MSDW). If any such amount is not repaid, MSDW reserves the right to withhold from the Participant s compensation an amount equal to the value of the
Award subject to the Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as required herein.         

(e)  
  The Committee reserves the right to accelerate the vesting of any cash, Stock or Stock Unit Award awarded pursuant to Section V of the Plan,  provided  that, if the Award was
made subject to  Appendix A  hereof, then vesting of such Award shall be subject to  Appendix A  hereof. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Company and the Committee shall not have any right to accelerate the vesting or payment of
any cash, Stock or Stock Unit Award awarded pursuant to the Plan to the extent such right is prohibited by Section 409A, or the existence of such right would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal
income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of an Award or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         

(f)  
  As a condition to the vesting or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, the Company may require a Participant to pay such sum as may be necessary
to discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA tax) imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any obligation that the
Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by the Company and, in the discretion of the Company, (i) such payment may be in the form of cash or other property and (ii) in satisfaction of such taxes,
assessments or other governmental charges or, exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, of other obligations that a Participant owes to the Company, the Company may, in the
discretion of the Company, make available for delivery a lesser amount of cash or number of shares of Stock in payment or settlement of an Award. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company
may not offset from the payment or settlement of such Award amounts that a Participant owes to the Company with respect to any such other obligations except to the extent such offset is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a
Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         SECTION VIII        SUBORDINATION OF
DEFERRED BONUSES        

(a)  
    Except with respect to any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, MSDW may require, as a condition of participation in the
Plan, that a Branch Manager execute and deliver a written agreement (the    Agreement   ) within forty-five (45) days after notice of eligibility to participate that such Branch Manager s right to any payment  
          
   9   

hereunder (the    Payment Obligation   ) is subordinate to the prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of all
present and future creditors of MSDW arising out of any matter occurring prior to the date on which the related Payment Obligation matures consistent with all applicable statutes, regulations and rules, except for claims which are the subject of
subordination agreements which ran on the same priority (which claims shall be paid pari passu) or are junior to the Payment Obligation under the Agreement. The Agreement shall also provide that the Participant s right to payment hereunder
shall be subordinate to claims which are now or hereafter expressly stated in the instruments creating such claims to be senior in right of payment to the claims of the class of claims created hereunder which arise out of any matter occurring prior
to the maturity date of any payment under the Payment Obligation.          

(b)  
  The form of the Agreement shall be determined by MSDW. In the event MSDW elects to treat Payment Obligations as subordinated liabilities for purposes of determining net capital
under Rule 15c3-1 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and similar regulations promulgated under the Commodities Exchange Act, the form of the Agreement shall be subject to approval of the
Examining Authority as defined by the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is annexed hereto as  Appendix A , and incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth herein at length.         

(c)  
  Any amount credited to a Participant s Account shall not be segregated but shall remain a part of the general corporate funds of MSDW subject to the claims of general,
unsecured creditors of MSDW to which claims the rights of the Participant to receive payment of the amount credited to the Participant s Account shall be subordinated pursuant to the terms of an Agreement.         

(d)  
  If a Participant is required by MSDW to execute and deliver an Agreement within the forty-five (45) day period described in (a) above and does not do so, such Participant
shall cease to have any rights whatsoever hereunder with respect to Awards granted under Section V(c)(3) or Section V(d).         SECTION IX        ADMINISTRATION        

(a)  
  The Committee shall have full power and authority to exercise all powers granted to it under the Plan and to construe, interpret and administer the Plan. Its decisions shall be
final, conclusive and binding upon all persons interested herein, including Participants and their beneficiaries and personal representatives.         

(b)  
    The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board
may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to time, resolve to administer the Plan, in which case, the term Committee as used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Board. To the extent not prohibited by applicable laws or rules of the
New York Stock Exchange, the Committee or the Board may from time to time delegate some or all of the Committee s authority under the Plan to an administrator consisting of one or more members of the Committee as a  
          
   10   

subcommittee or subcommittees thereof or of one or more members of the Board who are not members of the Committee or one or more officers of the Company (or
of any combination of such persons) (the    Administrator   ). Any such delegation shall be subject to the restrictions and limits specified at the time of such delegation or thereafter. The Committee or the Board may at any time
rescind all or part of the authority delegated to an Administrator or appoint a new Administrator. At all times, the Administrator shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Board. Any action undertaken by the Administrator in accordance
with the delegation of the Committee s authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by the Committee, and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of
such delegation, be deemed to include a reference to the Administrator.          

(c)  
  The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.         

(c)  
  The interest and property rights of any person in the Plan or in any distribution to be made under the Plan shall not be subject to option nor be assignable either by voluntary or
involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor s process and any act in violation hereof shall be void.         

(d)  
  Nothing herein shall be construed to require Morgan Stanley or any affiliate to segregate or set aside any funds or any property for the purpose of making payments hereunder.

(e)  
  The Company s and the Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among persons who receive or are eligible to receive Awards
under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company and the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations and to enter
into non-uniform and selective Award Certificates as to (1) the persons to receive Awards under the Plan; (2) the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan; (3) the exercise by the Company or the Committee of its discretion in
respect of the terms of the Plan; and (4) any adjustments made pursuant to Section V(f) of the Plan.         SECTION X  
      MISCELLANEOUS        

(a)  
  The establishment of the Plan, the granting of benefits or any action by the Company, the Committee or any other person shall not be held or construed to confer upon any person any
right to employment by the Company nor, upon termination of employment, to confer any right or interest other than as provided herein. No provision of the Plan shall restrict the right of the Company to terminate any Employee s employment for
any reason, with or without cause.         

(b)  
  If, in the opinion of the Company, any person becomes unable to handle properly any amount payable to such person under the Plan, the Company may make any reasonable arrangement for
payment on such person s behalf as it deems appropriate.           
   11   

(c)  
  Where appropriate, the use of masculine terms within the Plan shall mean the feminine, the use of singular terms shall mean the plural, and vice versa.         

(d)  
  Except as otherwise provided in Section VII(b)(3) or in the applicable Award Certificate, no Participant shall have any of the rights of a stockholder of Morgan Stanley with respect
to shares of Stock corresponding to an Award until the issuance of such Stock to the Participant.         SECTION XI
       EFFECTIVE DATE, AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION AND DISCONTINUANCE        

(a)  
  The Committee shall have the authority to amend the Plan, in whole or in part, or to suspend or discontinue the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time. MSDW shall have the authority
to change the criteria for awarding MIC awards or cash Challenge Bonuses.         

(b)  
  In the event of the discontinuance or termination of the Plan, the Company reserves the right to accelerate payment of a Participant s Award to any date prior to the vesting
periods applicable to such Award, subject to provisions of  Appendix A  to the Plan,  provided  that the Company shall not have any such right to accelerate payment of a Participant s Award to the extent such right is prohibited by
Section 409A, or the existence of such right would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of an Award or would result in a Participant
incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         

(c)  
  If any part of this Plan, including  Appendix A  hereto, fails to receive any required approval of a regulatory or governing body or is otherwise declared void and of no
effect, the rest of the Plan shall continue in full force.         

(d)  
  This Plan shall govern Payment Obligations of deferred Challenge Bonuses accrued for the Fiscal Year beginning in 1984 and thereafter.         

(e)  
  The Plan shall continue in effect as amended from time to time, until suspended or discontinued by the Committee.         

(f)  
  Any discretionary authority or obligation that the Committee or the Company may have pursuant to the Plan (including  Appendix A  hereto) shall not be applicable to an Award
that is subject to Section 409A to the extent such discretionary authority or obligation is prohibited by Section 409A, or would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior
to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of an Award or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         
  
   12   

APPENDIX A        TO THE        MORGAN STANLEY        BRANCH MANAGER COMPENSATION PLAN       For purposes of this Appendix A, a Branch Manager who is
designated in writing by Morgan Stanley DW Inc. as a participant under the Plan, shall be known as a    Participant   , Morgan Stanley DW Inc. shall be known as    MSDW  ,  and MSDW s    Payment
Obligation    shall be as defined below.       

1.  
   Payment Obligation         (a) Payment Obligations shall
consist of any deferred payments of Challenge Bonuses owed from time to time to a Participant by MSDW pursuant to the Plan.      (b) Payment
Obligations including the dates payments are due, shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as in effect on the date hereof, or as hereafter amended. As provided in Sections 4 and 5 of this Appendix A, no payment of any
amount of a Payment Obligation may be made sooner than five years following the year for which such Payment Obligation is accrued by MSDW. If any provision of the Plan as now in effect or as hereafter amended shall be inconsistent with this Appendix
A, this Appendix A shall govern.       

2.  
   Subordination of Right of Payment         (a) Payment
Obligations are and shall be subordinated in right of payment and subject to prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of other present and future creditors of MSDW whose claims are not similarly subordinated (claims hereunder
shall rank pari passu with claims similarly subordinated) and to claims which are now or hereafter expressly stated in the instruments creating such claims to be senior in right of payment to the claims or the class of claims hereunder which arise
out of any matter occurring prior to the maturity date of any payment under the Payment Obligation.      (b) In the event of the appointment of
a receiver or trustee for MSDW or in the event of its insolvency, liquidation pursuant to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (   SIPA   ) or otherwise, its bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors,
reorganization whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws or any other marshaling of the assets and liabilities of MSDW, Participants shall not be entitled to participate or share, ratably or otherwise, in the distribution of the assets of MSDW
until all claims of all other present and future creditors of MSDW whose claims are senior to claims hereunder have been fully satisfied or provision has been made therefor.      (c) Notwithstanding the maturing of the Payment Obligation under any provision of the Plan or this Appendix A, the right of a Participant to receive
payment of any Payment Obligation is and shall remain subordinate as provided in this Section 2.         
   A-1   

3.  
   Suspension of Maturity During Net Capital Stringency         (a) MSDW s Payment Obligations shall be suspended and not mature for any period of time during which, after giving effect to such Payment Obligations (together with the payment of any other subordinated obligation of MSDW payable at or
prior to such payment of the Payment Obligations),      (i) if MSDW is not operating pursuant to the alternative net capital
requirements provided for in paragraph (f) of Rule 15c3-1 (the    Rule   ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the    Act   ), the aggregate indebtedness of MSDW would exceed 1,200 percentum of its
net capital, as those terms are defined in the Rule, as in effect at the time such payment is to be made, or such percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW from time to time by the Examining Authority (as defined in paragraph 7(f) hereof) plus an
amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations, other than the Chicago Board of Trade (   CBOT   ), which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member
FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (ii) if MSDW is operating pursuant to
the alternative net capital requirements provided for in paragraph (f) of the Rule, its net capital would be less than five (5) percentum of aggregate debit items (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining
Authority) computed in accordance with Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3 under the Act or any successor rule as in effect at the time such payment is to be made, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT,
which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (iii) if MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the Commodity Exchange Act (the    CEA   ), the net
capital of MSDW would be less than the greatest of (A) six (6) percentum of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and Commodities Futures Trading Commission (   CFTC   ) Regulations and the foreign
futures or foreign options secured amount exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers of MSDW on or subject to the rules of a contract market or a foreign board of trade, provided the deduction for each option
customer shall be limited to the amount of customer funds in each option customer s account(s), and foreign futures and foreign options secured amounts plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the
CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, (B) such amount as may be made applicable to
MSDW at the time of such payment by the Examining Authority under Rule 15c3-1(b)(7), or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA and CFTC Regulations), or         
   A-2   

(iv) if MSDW s net capital, as defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in
effect at the time such payment is to be made, would be less than 120 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such payment by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the Rule as
in effect at such time, or such dollar amount as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under
Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (v) if MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA and if its net capital, as defined in the CEA or CFTC Regulations thereunder as in effect at the time of such payment, would be less than 120
percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the CEA or the regulations thereunder as in effect at such time (or such other dollar amount as may be made
applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority at the time of such payment), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT
 Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (vi) if MSDW is subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(6)(v) or (a)(7)(iv) or (c)(2)(x)(B)(1) of the Rule, its net capital would be less than the amount required to satisfy the 1,000 percentum test (or such other percentum test as may
be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority at the time of such payment) stated in such applicable paragraph, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current
assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes.      The net capital required by (i)-(vi) above, is hereinafter referred to as the  Applicable Minimum Capital . During any such suspension MSDW shall, as promptly as consistent with the protection of its
customers, reduce its business to a condition whereby payment due under Payment Obligations could be made (together with the payment of any other subordinated obligation of MSDW payable at or prior to such payment) without MSDW s net capital
being below the Applicable Minimum Capital, at which time MSDW shall make payment due under Payment Obligations on not less than five days prior written notice to the Examining Authority.      (b) If immediately after any payment of a Payment Obligation MSDW s net capital is less than the Applicable Minimum Capital, whether or not the
Participant had any knowledge or notice of such fact at the time of any such payment, a Participant must repay to MSDW, its successors or assigns, any sum so paid, to be held by MSDW pursuant to the provisions of the Plan as if such payment had
never been made; provided, however, that any suit for the recovery of any such payment must be commenced within two years of the date of such payment. MSDW reserves the right to withhold from the Participant s compensation the amount of any
Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as required herein.         
   A-3   

(c) If pursuant to the terms hereof payment of MSDW s Payment Obligations are suspended, MSDW may be
summarily suspended by the Examining Authority.       

4.  
   Permissive Prepayment         With the prior written
permission of the Examining Authority, MSDW may, at its option and to the extent permitted by the Plan, pay all or any portion of the Payment Obligation to the Participant (such payment hereinafter referred to as a
   Prepayment   ) at any time subsequent to one year from the date subordinated funds became subject to this Appendix A. No Prepayment shall be made, however, if after giving effect thereto (and to all other payments of any other
subordinated obligation of MSDW payable within six months of such Prepayment) without reference to any projected profit or loss of MSDW,      (i) in the event that MSDW is not operating pursuant to the alternative net capital requirement provided for in paragraph (f) of the Rule, the aggregate indebtedness of MSDW would exceed 1,000 percentum of its
net capital as those terms are defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in effect at the time such Prepayment is to be made (or such other percentum as may be made applicable at such time to MSDW by the Examining Authority), plus an amount equal
to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for
margin purposes, or      (ii) in the event that MSDW is operating pursuant to such alternative net capital requirement, the net
capital of MSDW would be less than 5 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3 under
the Act or any successor rule as in effect at such time, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital
Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (iii) in the
event that MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA, the net capital of MSDW (as defined in the CEA or CFTC Regulations as in effect at the time of such Prepayment) would be less than the greatest of (A) 7 percentum (or
such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and CFTC Regulations and the foreign futures or foreign options secured
amount, exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a contract market or a foreign board of trade (provided the deduction for each option customer shall be limited to the amount of
customer  
       
   A-4   

funds in each option customer s account(s) and foreign futures and foreign options secured amounts), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with
clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes,
(B) such amount as may be made applicable to MSDW by an Examining Authority under Rule 15c3-1(b)(7) or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA or CFTC Regulations), or      (iv) MSDW s net capital as defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in effect at the time of such Prepayment, would be less than
120 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the rule as in effect at such time (or such other dollar amount as may be
made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the
CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (v) in the event that MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA, its net capital, as defined in the CEA or the regulations thereunder, as in effect at the time of such Prepayment would be less than 120 percentum (or
such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the CEA or the regulations thereunder as in effect at such time or such other dollar amount as
may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of
the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (vi) in the event that MSDW is subject to the provision of paragraph (a)(6)(v) or (a)(7)(iv) or (c)(2)(x)(B)(1) of the Rule, the net capital of MSDW would be less than the amount required to satisfy the 1,000 percentum test (or such other
percentum test as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) stated in such applicable paragraph, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT which were
included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s,  to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes.      If Prepayment is made of all or any part of the Payment Obligation before the date payment is due and if MSDW s net capital is less than the amount
required to permit such Prepayment pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the Participant agrees irrevocably (whether or not such Participant had any knowledge or notice of such fact at the time  
       
   A-5   

of such Prepayment) to repay MSDW, its successors or assigns, the sum so paid to be held by MSDW pursuant to the provisions hereof as if such Prepayment had
never been made; provided, however, that any suit for the recovery of any such Prepayment must be commenced within two years of the date of such Prepayment. MSDW reserves the right to withhold from the Participant s compensation the amount of
any Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as required herein.       

5.  
   Special Prepayment         MSDW, at its option and as
permitted by the Plan, but not at the option of the Participant, may make a payment of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation hereunder sooner than one year from the date on which such amount became subject to this agreement (a
   Special Prepayment   ), if the written consent of the appropriate regulatory authority is first obtained. If MSDW shall be a futures commission merchant, as that term is defined in the CEA and CFTC Regulations, no such
prepayment shall be made if:      (i) after giving effect thereto (and to all payments of payment obligations under any other
Subordination Agreements then outstanding, the maturities or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such Special Prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on
which the Payment Obligation with respect to such Special Prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of MSDW the net capital of MSDW is less than the
greatest of (A) 10 percentum of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and CFTC Regulations and the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option
customers of MSDW on or subject to the rules of a contract market or a foreign board of trade (provided the deduction for each option customer shall be limited to the amount of customer funds in such option customer s account(s) and foreign
futures and foreign options secured amount), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations, other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211, (B) if MSDW is a securities broker or
dealer, the amount of net capital specified in Rule 15c3-1d(c)(5)(ii) of the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 C.F.R. 240.15c3-1d(c)5(ii), or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA or CFTC
Regulations), or      (ii) Pretax losses during the latest three month period were greater than 15% of current excess adjusted
net capital.       

6.  
   Maturity Upon Certain Events         Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 3 hereof, the Payment Obligation shall (to the extent not already matured) forthwith mature, together with all other Subordination Agreements then outstanding, in the event of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation
pursuant to SIPA or otherwise, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws, or any other marshaling of the assets and liabilities of MSDW.         
   A-6   

7.  
   Miscellaneous Provisions         (a) Participants may not
rely upon any commodity exchange or securities exchange to provide any information concerning or relating to MSDW. Such exchanges have no responsibility to disclose to the Participant any information concerning or relating to MSDW which they may
have now or at any future time. The Participant agrees that the New York Stock Exchange (the    NYSE   ), its Special Trust Fund or any director, officer, trustee or employee of the NYSE or said Trust Fund or any other exchange
or director, officer, trustee or employee thereof shall not be liable to the Participant with respect to the Plan or any distribution pursuant thereto.      (b) The funds represented by the Payment Obligations shall be dealt with in all respects as capital of MSDW, shall be subject to the risks of the business and may be deposited in an account or accounts in MSDW s
name in any bank or trust company.      (c) Payment Obligations under the Plan may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise
encumbered or disposed of and no lien, charge or other encumbrance may be created or permitted to be created hereon, without the prior written consent of the Examining Authority.      (d) If MSDW is a futures commission merchant as that term is defined in the CEA, MSDW agrees, consistent with the requirements of Section 1.17(h) of
the CFTC Regulations that whenever prior written notice by MSDW to the Examining Authority is required pursuant to the provisions of this agreement, the same prior written notice shall be given by MSDW to (1) the CFTC at its principal office in
Washington, D.C., Attention Chief Accountant of Division of Trading and Markets, and/or (2) the commodity exchanges of which Morgan Stanley is a member and which are then designated by the CFTC as MSDW s designated self-regulatory
organizations as defined in Section 1.3(ff) of the CFTC Regulations (the    DSROs   ).      (e)
   Subordination Agreement    as used herein shall include any subordinated loan agreement and any secured demand note agreement constituting a satisfactory subordination agreement under the Rule under which MSDW is the borrower
or the pledgee of collateral, and reference herein to the payment of a subordinated obligation of MSDW shall be deemed to include the return to the maker-pledgor of any secured demand note and the collateral therefor held by MSDW.      (f) The term    Examining Authority    shall refer to the regulatory body, specified in paragraph (c)(12) of the Rule, responsible
for inspecting or examining MSDW for compliance with financial responsibility requirements. If MSDW is and continues to be a member of the NYSE, the references herein to the Examining Authority shall be deemed to refer to the NYSE. If MSDW is and
continues to be a futures commission merchant as that term is defined in the CEA and regulations thereunder, references to the Examining Authority shall also be deemed to refer to the CFTC and MSDW s DSROs.         
   A-7   

(g) The provisions of this Appendix A shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of MSDW, its
successors and assigns and the Participant and the Participant s heirs, executors and administrators.      (h) Any controversy arising out
of or relating to this Plan shall be submitted to and settled by arbitration pursuant to the Constitution and Rules of the NYSE, MSDW and Participant shall be conclusively bound by such arbitration.      (i) MSDW shall not modify, amend or cancel this Appendix or any provision of the Plan governing the Payment Obligations that are the subject of the
Appendix without the prior approval of the Examining Authority.      (j) This agreement shall be deemed to have been made under and shall be
governed by the laws of the State of New York.         
   A-8   

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 11
 dex1034.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY FINANCIAL ADVISOR AND INVESTMENT REPRESENTATIVE

Morgan Stanley Financial Advisor and Investment Representative 

EXHIBIT 10.34        MORGAN STANLEY        FINANCIAL ADVISOR AND INVESTMENT REPRESENTATIVE        COMPENSATION PLAN       (Amended and
Restated as of November 26, 2007)       SECTION I        INTRODUCTION        

(a)  
  The name of this plan is the Morgan Stanley Financial Advisor and Investment Representative Compensation Plan (the    Plan   ).         
     SECTION II        PURPOSE OF PLAN        

(a)  
  The purposes of the Plan are to retain and recruit key Financial Advisors and Investment Representatives to the Company by enabling them to accumulate significant net worth.
        SECTION III        DEFINITIONS       Unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, capitalized
terms used herein without definition have the meanings set forth below.       

(a)  
     Account    means a bookkeeping account maintained in a confidential ledger pursuant to Section VI of the Plan for each Participant granted a cash Award under
the Plan.            

(b)  
     Award    means any award of cash, Stock or Stock Units made pursuant to Section V of the Plan.           
   1   

(c)  
     Award Certificate    means a written document (including in electronic form) that sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Certificates shall be
authorized by the Committee and signed by an officer on behalf of Morgan Stanley (which signature may be in facsimile).         

(d)  
     Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.         

(e)  
     Committee    means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of
the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.         

(f)  
     Company    means Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries.         

(g)  
  In respect of each award granted prior to June 20, 2006,    Disability    means termination of employment from MSDW due to a medically determinable physical
or mental incapacity which is reasonably expected to be of long-term duration or result in death, and the determination of MSDW shall be conclusive on all parties as to whether a Participant is Disabled. In respect of each award granted on or after
June 20, 2006,    Disability    shall have the meaning determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         

(h)  
     Employee    means a Financial Advisor or Investment Representative.         

(i)  
  In respect of each award granted prior to June 20, 2006,    Fair Market Value    means:        (1) for purposes of determining the number of shares of Stock to be allocated pursuant to Section VII(a) to an award made pursuant to
Section V, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Board or the Committee; and      (2) for purposes of crediting a Participant pursuant to Section VII(d) with shares of Stock based upon cash dividends paid or deemed to be
paid on shares of Stock credited to the Participant as of the record date for such dividends, the average of the high and low sales prices, regular way, of a share of Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape (the
 High/Low Price ) on the relevant dividend payment date, or, if Stock is not traded on public markets on the relevant dividend payment date, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;  provided ,
 however , that in the event a  Fair Market Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology
approved by the Committee; and      (3) for purposes of distributing cash in lieu of a fractional share pursuant to Section
VII(b), the High/Low Price on the date of the distribution, or, if Stock is not traded on public markets on the date of the distribution, the first preceding date on which Stock is traded on public markets;  provided ,  however , that in
the event a  Fair Market Value  cannot be determined pursuant to the foregoing, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee; and
        
   2   

(4) for such other purposes as may arise in connection with the Plan, the fair market
value of a share of Stock as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee;      In respect of each Award granted on or after June 20, 2006,    Fair Market Value    means, with respect to a share of Stock, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of
determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.       

(j)  
     Financial Advisor    means an employee of MSDW performing the functions of a retail Financial Advisor, as defined by MSDW.         

(k)  
     Fiscal Year    means the fiscal year of Morgan Stanley.         

(l)  
     Gross Revenue    means the gross production generated by a Financial Advisor during a stated period.         

(m)  
     Investment Representative    means an employee of the Company performing the functions of an Investment Representative, as defined by Morgan Stanley.

(n)  
     Morgan Stanley    means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.         

(o)  
     MS Co.    means Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto (including, without limitation, any successor
by merger).         

(p)  
     MSDW    means Morgan Stanley DW Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto (including, without limitation, any successor by merger).

(q)  
     Participant    means an Employee to whom an Award has been made pursuant to Section V.         

(r)  
  In respect of each award granted prior to June 20, 2006,    Related Employment    means the employment of a Participant by an employer other than MSDW,
 provided  that: (1) such employment is undertaken by the individual at the request or with the consent of MSDW; (2) immediately prior to undertaking such employment, the individual was an employee of MSDW or was engaged in Related
Employment as defined herein; and (3) such employment is recognized by MSDW, in its discretion, as Related Employment. In respect of each award granted on or after June 20, 2006,    Related Employment    shall have the
meaning determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         

(s)  
  In respect of each award granted prior to June 20, 2006,    Retirement    means termination of employment from MSDW (i) after attaining age 65;
(ii) as defined in the Morgan Stanley DW Inc. Pension Plan whether or not the individual is a participant therein; or           
   3   

(iii) as otherwise specified by written agreement between MSDW and a Financial Advisor. In respect of
each award granted on or after June 20, 2006,    Retirement    shall have the meaning determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.       

(t)  
     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor
provisions thereto).         

(u)  
     Stock    means the common stock of Morgan Stanley, par value $.01 per share.         

(v)  
     Stock Unit    means a general, unsecured obligation of Morgan Stanley to deliver one share of Stock (or the value thereof) to a Participant pursuant to an
Award recorded by the Company as a bookkeeping entry, subject to conditions determined by the Committee pursuant to Section V.         SECTION IV        ELIGIBILITY        

(a)  
  Financial Advisors who produce Gross Revenue within a Fiscal Year which is equal to or exceeds criteria established from time to time by the Committee, and Employees who meet or
exceed any other criteria established from time to time by the Committee, shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.         

(b)  
  Any Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan only with respect to the Fiscal Year for which he or she meets the criteria specified pursuant to Section V of the Plan.

(c)  
  Individuals selected to receive Awards pursuant to Section V(d) of the Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Plan in connection with, and subject to the terms of, their
Awards.         SECTION V        AWARDS        

(a)  
  The Committee may establish Gross Revenue criteria which will entitle a Financial Advisor to receive an Award under the Plan for a Fiscal Year. Such Award may be expressed as a
percentage of each Financial Advisor s Gross Revenue for the Fiscal Year for which such Award is being made. Awards granted under this Section V(a) shall be payable in accordance with Section VII.         

(b)  
  The Committee may establish any other criteria which will entitle an Employee to receive an Award under the Plan for a given Fiscal Year. An Employee who achieves such other
criteria shall receive an Award for that Fiscal Year based on such criteria. Awards granted under this Section V(b) shall be payable in accordance with Section VII.           
   4   

(c)  
  Any Participant who terminates as an Employee during the Fiscal Year, for whatever reason, shall not be eligible for any Award pursuant to Section V(a) or (b) for such Fiscal
Year.         

(d)  
  The Committee may, in its discretion from time to time, make to an individual, in consideration of such individual becoming an Employee, remaining an Employee, or such other
consideration as the Committee may determine, an Award on such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, which terms and conditions need not be uniform with the terms and conditions of Section VI, VII or VIII hereof.

(e)  
  Awards granted under this Section V on or after June 20, 2006 shall be subject to such terms and conditions, including, without limitation, vesting requirements, cancellation
provisions and transfer restrictions, established by the Committee, in its sole discretion, in connection with the Award. The Committee shall also have full authority to determine and specify in the applicable Award Certificate the effect, if any,
that a Participant s termination of employment for any reason will have on the vesting, payment or lapse of restrictions applicable to an Award granted on or after June 20, 2006. The terms and conditions of each Award granted on or after
June 20, 2006 shall be set forth in an Award Certificate delivered or made available by Morgan Stanley to the Participant following the date of grant of the Award.         

(f)   
    The total number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan is
6,500,000 1 . Shares delivered under the Plan may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares that Morgan Stanley acquires in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise. The Committee shall equitably adjust the number
and kind of shares authorized for delivery under the Plan in the event of a stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, merger, acquisition, reorganization, spinoff or similar equity restructuring transaction. In connection with any of
the foregoing events, the Committee shall equitably adjust outstanding Awards, including, if necessary, by adjusting the number and kind of shares subject to any outstanding Award.          SECTION VI        ACCOUNTS-ESCROW AGENT

(a)  
  A separate Account shall be maintained in a confidential ledger for each Participant granted a cash Award by the Company for each Fiscal Year. Each such Account shall be credited
with the amount of cash Awards not paid to the Participant pursuant to Section VII of the Plan and increased from time to time by any additional cash Awards not paid to each Participant. Each Account shall be decreased by any cash amounts paid to or
on behalf of a Participant or forfeited pursuant to Section VII of the Plan.         

1    
    Such number represents the maximum number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan that was initially
approved by the Board of Directors of Dean Witter, Discover   Co. (the predecessor of Morgan Stanley) and does not reflect adjustments to such maximum number that were made in accordance with Section V(f) after the date of such approval.
           
   5   

(b)  
  As a condition to participation in the Plan, each Participant shall be required to hold Stock corresponding to Awards of Stock granted under the Plan in an escrow account and such
Participant s participation in the Plan shall constitute the appointment of such custodian as the Company shall designate (the    Custodian   ) as the custodial agent for the purpose of holding such Stock. Such escrow
account will be governed by and subject to the terms and conditions of a written agreement with the Custodian.         SECTION VII
       AWARD PAYMENTS        

(a)  
  Awards under Section V(a) for the 1994 Fiscal Year were made, at the Participant s election prior to the date the Award is made, in the form of (i) cash, payable four
years and six months following the close of the Fiscal Year for which the Award was made, or (ii) shares of Stock valued at 100% of the Fair Market Value of Stock as of the date the Award is made, granted as soon as practicable following the
close of the Fiscal Year for which the Award was made. Awards under Section V(a) for Fiscal Years commencing with the 1995 Fiscal Year granted prior to June 20, 2006, were made entirely in the form of Stock valued at 100% of the Fair Market
Value of Stock as of the date the Award was made, granted as soon as practicable following the close of the Fiscal Year for which the Award was made. Awards granted under Section V(b) prior to June 20, 2006 may be made in cash or Stock, as
determined by the Committee. Awards granted under Section V(a) or Section V(b) on or after June 20, 2006 may be made in cash, Stock, Stock Units or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee.         

(b)  
  The following payment provisions shall apply to Awards granted under Section V(a) or Section V(b) of the Plan prior to June 20, 2006:        (1) the number of shares of Stock payable with respect to an Award shall be calculated by reference to the amount of the Award determined
under Section V, discounted by an appropriate interest rate factor as the Company shall establish from time to time so that the value of the Award payable under this Section VII is equal to the present value of the amount determined pursuant to
Section V and payable four years and six months following the close of the Fiscal Year for which the Award was made;      (2) a
Participant on a leave of absence approved by MSDW or who is absent due to Disability on the date an Award payment is made shall not be entitled to payment of such Award until the Participant returns to MSDW following completion of such leave of
absence or Disability;      (3) the commencement of Related Employment by a Participant shall not be treated for purposes of the
Plan and any such Award as a termination of employment;      (4) Stock Awards shall vest and cash Awards shall be paid, four
years and six months following the close of the Fiscal Year with respect to which awarded,  provided  that the Participant s status as an employee of MSDW has not been terminated prior to such date;         
   6   

(5) upon the Participant s termination of employment with MSDW, all unvested Stock
Awards and unpaid cash Awards shall be forfeited;      (6) notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, if a
Participant terminates employment with MSDW due to Disability or Retirement, or upon a Participant s death, all of the Participant s Awards shall vest immediately and be paid as promptly as practicable;      (7) the Retirement, Disability or death of an individual during a period of Related Employment shall be treated for purposes of the Plan
and any such Award as if such event had occurred while the individual was an employee of MSDW;      (8) payments to Participants
of any fractional share shall be paid in cash.       

(c)  
  The number of shares of Stock payable with respect to an Award granted pursuant to Section V(a) or V(b) on or after June 20, 2006 shall be determined in accordance with a
valuation methodology approved by the Committee and such Awards shall be subject to the conditions to payment determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.         

(d)  
  A Participant may vote and receive dividends on any Award of Stock granted to such Participant under Section VII(a), or credited under this Section VII(d), prior to June 20,
2006. With respect to Awards of Stock granted prior to June 20, 2006, all dividends on such Stock (other than dividends payable in Stock) shall be reinvested in shares of Stock at 100% of the Fair Market Value of Stock which shares shall be
credited to the Participant and held by the Custodian. Unless the applicable Award Certificate otherwise provides, all shares of Stock received as a distribution with respect to an Award of Stock or purchased with reinvested dividends under this
Section VII(d) shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Award of Stock on which the distribution or dividend is awarded.         

(e)  
  With respect to Awards granted on or after June 20, 2006, if Morgan Stanley pays any ordinary or regular dividend or makes any ordinary or regular distribution to holders of
Stock, the Committee may in its discretion authorize payments (which may be in cash, Stock (including restricted Stock) or Stock Units or a combination thereof) with respect to the shares corresponding to an Award, or may authorize appropriate
adjustments to outstanding Awards, to reflect such dividend or distribution. The Committee may make any such payments subject to vesting, deferral or restrictions on transfer. Any determination by the Committee with respect to a Participant s
entitlement to receive any amounts related to ordinary or regular dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such entitlement, if any, will be part of the terms and conditions of the Award, and will be
included in the Award Certificate corresponding to such Award.         

(f)  
    In accordance with the provisions of  Appendix A  to the Plan, if MSDW must recover a Payment Obligation that was made subject to  Appendix A  and was
previously paid to a Participant pursuant to this Section VII, a Participant shall be required to repay the amount of cash or the number of shares of Stock received or underlying Stock Units  
          
   7   

granted (or an amount in cash equal to the fair market value of such Stock as of the date of such repayment, as determined by MSDW). MSDW shall not have the
right to withhold any such amount that is not repaid from a Participant s compensation that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A except to the extent such withholding is not prohibited by Section 409A and
would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of such deferred compensation or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A. MSDW reserves the right to
withhold from any portion of a Participant s compensation that does not constitute deferred compensation under Section 409A the amount of any Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as required herein.

(g)  
  The Committee reserves the right to accelerate the vesting of any Award of cash, Stock or Stock Units awarded pursuant to Section V of the Plan,  provided  that, if the Award
of such cash, Stock or Stock Units was made subject to  Appendix A  hereof, then vesting of such cash, Stock or Stock Units shall be subject to  Appendix A  hereof. Notwithstanding any other authority granted to it, the Committee shall not
have any right to accelerate the vesting or payment of any cash, Stock or Stock Units awarded pursuant to the Plan that constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited
by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of an Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.

(h)  
  As a condition to the vesting or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, the Company may require a Participant to pay such sum as may be necessary
to discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA tax) imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any obligation that the
Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by the Company and, in the discretion of the Company, (i) such payment may be in the form of cash or other property, including the tender of previously owned
shares of Stock and (ii) in satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or, exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, of other obligations
that a Participant owes to the Company, the Company may, in the discretion of the Company, make available for delivery a lesser number of shares of Stock in payment or settlement of an Award. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of
compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not offset from the payment or settlement of such Award amounts that a Participant owes to the Company with respect to any such other obligations except to the extent such offset is not
prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under
Section 409A. The Company may, in its discretion, deduct or withhold such amounts from any payment or distribution to a Participant, whether or not pursuant to the Plan, that is not made in respect of a deferral of compensation subject to
Section 409A.           
   8   

SECTION VIII        SUBORDINATION OF AWARDS        

(a)  
  Except with respect to any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, MSDW may require, as a condition of participation in the Plan, that a
Financial Advisor execute and deliver a written agreement (the    Agreement   ) within forty-five (45) days after notice of eligibility to Participate that such Financial Advisor s right to payment hereunder (the
   Payment Obligation   ), is subordinate to the prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of all present and future creditors of MSDW arising out of any matter occurring prior to the date on which the related
Payment Obligation matures consistent with all applicable statutes, regulations and rules, except for claims which are the subject of subordination agreements which rank on the same priority (which claims shall be paid pari passu) or are junior to
the Payment Obligation under the Agreement. The Agreement shall also provide that the Participant s right to payment hereunder shall be subordinate to claims which are now or hereafter expressly stated in the instruments creating such claims to
be senior in right of payment to the claims of the class of claims created hereunder which arise out of any matter occurring prior to the maturity date of any payment under the Payment Obligation.         

(b)  
  The form of the Agreement shall be determined by MSDW. In the event that MSDW elects to treat Payment Obligations as subordinated liabilities for purposes of determining net capital
under Rule 15c3-1 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and similar regulations promulgated under the Commodities Exchange Act, the form of the Agreement shall be subject to approval of the
Examining Authority as defined by the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is annexed hereto as  Appendix A , and incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth herein at length.         

(c)  
  Any amount credited to a Participant s Account shall not be segregated but shall remain a part of the general corporate funds of MSDW subject to the claims of general,
unsecured creditors of MSDW to which claims the rights of the Participant to receive payment of the amount credited to the Participant s Account shall be subordinated pursuant to the terms of an Agreement.         

(d)  
  If a Participant is required by MSDW to execute and deliver an Agreement within the forty-five (45) day period described in (a) above and does not do so, such Participant
shall cease to have any rights whatsoever hereunder.         SECTION IX        ADMINISTRATION        

(a)  
  The Committee shall have full power and authority to exercise all powers granted to it under the Plan and to construe, interpret and administer the Plan. Its decisions shall be
final, conclusive and binding upon all persons interested herein, including Participants and their beneficiaries and personal representatives.           
   9   

(b)  
  The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, in its sole
discretion, at any time and from time to time, resolve to administer the Plan, in which case, the term Committee as used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Board. To the extent not prohibited by applicable laws or rules of the New York Stock
Exchange, the Committee or the Board may from time to time delegate some or all of the Committee s authority under the Plan to an administrator consisting of one or more members of the Committee as a subcommittee or subcommittees thereof or of
one or more members of the Board who are not members of the Committee or one or more officers of the Company (or of any combination of such persons) (the    Administrator   ). Any such delegation shall be subject to the
restrictions and limits specified at the time of such delegation or thereafter. The Committee or the Board may at any time rescind all or part of the authority delegated to an Administrator or appoint a new Administrator. At all times, the
Administrator shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Board. Any action undertaken by the Administrator in accordance with the delegation of the Committee s authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by
the Committee, and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of such delegation, be deemed to include a reference to the Administrator.         

(c)  
  The Plan shall be effective for all Awards accrued for the Fiscal Year beginning in 1984 and each Fiscal Year thereafter, as amended from time to time until suspended or
discontinued by the Company.         

(d)  
  The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.         

(e)  
  The interest and property rights of any person in the Plan or in any distribution to be made under the Plan shall not be subject to option nor be assignable, either by voluntary or
involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor s process and any act in violation hereof shall be void.         

(f)  
  Nothing herein shall be construed to require the Company to segregate or set aside any funds or any property for the purpose of making Award payments hereunder.

(g)  
  The Company s and the Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive,
Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and to enter into
non-uniform and selective Award Certificates, as to (1) the person to receive Awards under the Plan, (2) the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan, (3) the exercise by the Committee of its discretion in respect of the terms of
the Plan and (4) any adjustments made pursuant to Section V(f) of the Plan.           
   10   

SECTION X        MISCELLANEOUS        

(a)  
  The establishment of the Plan, the granting of benefits or any action by the Company, the Committee or any other person shall not be held or construed to confer upon any person any
right to be continued as an employee of the Company nor, upon termination of employment with the Company, to confer any right or interest other than as provided herein. No provision of the Plan shall restrict the right of the Company to terminate
any employee s employment for any reason, with or without cause.         

(b)  
  If, in the opinion of the Company, any person becomes unable to handle properly any amount payable to such person under the Plan, the Company may make any reasonable arrangement for
payment on such person s behalf as it deems appropriate.         

(c)  
  Where appropriate, the use of masculine terms within the Plan shall mean the feminine, the use of singular terms shall mean the plural, and vice versa.         

(d)  
  Except as otherwise provided in Section VII(d) or in the applicable Award Certificate, no Participant shall have any of the rights of a stockholder of Morgan Stanley with respect to
shares of Stock corresponding to an Award until the issuance of such Stock to the Participant.         SECTION XI    
   AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION AND DISCONTINUANCE        

(a)  
  The Committee shall have the authority to amend the Plan, in whole or in part, or to suspend or discontinue the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time.         

(b)  
  The Plan shall continue in effect as amended from time to time, until suspended or discontinued by the Committee.         

(c)  
  Notwithstanding any amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan, Awards previously granted shall be paid pursuant to the appropriate provisions of the Plan. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the event of the discontinuance or termination of the Plan, the Company reserves the right to accelerate payment of any Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A to any date prior to the
end of the vesting period applicable to such Award, subject to provisions of Appendix A to the Plan. To the extent that any Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company shall not have any right to accelerate
payment thereof except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment or settlement of an
Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.           
   11   

(d)  
  If any part of this Plan, including  Appendix A  hereto, fails to receive any required approval of the appropriate regulatory and governing bodies or is otherwise declared void
and of no effect, the rest of the Plan shall continue in full force.         

(e)  
  Any discretionary authority or obligation that the Committee or the Company may have pursuant to the Plan (including  Appendix A  hereto) shall not be applicable to an Award
that is subject to Section 409A to the extent such discretionary authority or obligation is prohibited by Section 409A, or would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior
to the time of payment, settlement or exercise of an Award or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         
  
   12   

APPENDIX A        MORGAN STANLEY        FINANCIAL ADVISOR PRODUCTIVITY COMPENSATION PLAN       For purposes of this  Appendix A , a Financial Advisor who is designated in writing by Morgan Stanley DW Inc. as a participant under the Plan shall
be known as a    Participant   , Morgan Stanley DW Inc. shall be known as    MSDW   , and MSDW s    Payment Obligation    shall be as defined below.       

1.    
   Payment Obligation         (a) Payment Obligations shall
consist of any deferred payments of deferred bonuses owed from time to time to a Participant by MSDW pursuant to the Plan.      (b) Payment
Obligations, including the dates payments are due, shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as in effect on the date hereof, or as hereafter amended. As provided in Sections 4 and 5 of this  Appendix A , payment of any
amount of a Payment Obligation may be made sooner than five years following the year for which such Payment Obligation is accrued by MSDW. If any provision of the Plan as now in effect or as hereafter amended shall be inconsistent with this
 Appendix A , this  Appendix A  shall govern.      2.  Subordination of Right of Payment       (a) Payment Obligations are and shall be subordinated in right of payment and subject to prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of
other present and future creditors of MSDW whose claims are not similarly subordinated (claims hereunder shall rank pari passu with claims similarly subordinated) and to claims which are now or hereafter expressly stated in the instruments creating
such claims to be senior in right of payment to the claims or the class of claims hereunder which arise out of any matter occurring prior to the maturity date of any payment under the Payment Obligation.      (b) In the event of the appointment of a receiver or trustee for MSDW or in the event of its insolvency, liquidation pursuant to the Securities Investor
Protection Act of 1970 (   SIPA   ), or otherwise, its bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws, or any other marshaling of the assets and liabilities of
MSDW, Participants shall not be entitled to participate or share, ratably or otherwise, in the distribution of the assets of MSDW until all claims of all other present and future creditors of MSDW whose claims are senior to claims hereunder have
been fully satisfied or provision has been made therefor.      (c) Notwithstanding the maturing of the Payment Obligation under any provision
of the Plan or this  Appendix A , the right of a Participant to receive payment of any Payment Obligation is and shall remain subordinate as provided in this Section 2.         
   A-1   

3.  
   Suspension of Maturity During Net Capital Stringency         (a) MSDW s Payment Obligations shall be suspended and not mature for any period of time during which, after giving effect to such Payment Obligations (together with the payment of any other subordinated obligation of MSDW payable at or
prior to such payment of the Payment Obligations),      (i) if MSDW is not operating pursuant to the alternative net capital
requirements provided for in paragraph (f) of Rule 15c3-1 (the    Rule   ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Act ), the aggregate indebtedness of MSDW would exceed 1,200 percentum of its net capital,
as those terms are defined in the Rule, as in effect at the time such payment is to be made, or such percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW from time to time by the Examining Authority (as defined in paragraph 7(f) hereof) plus an amount equal
to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the Chicago Board of Trade (   CBOT   ), which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member
FCM s,  to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (ii) if MSDW is operating pursuant to
the alternative net capital requirements provided for in paragraph (f) of the Rule, its net capital would be less than five (5) percentum of aggregate debit items (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining
Authority) computed in accordance with Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3 under the Act or any successor rule as in effect at the time such payment is to be made, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT,
which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (iii) if MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the Commodity Exchange Act (the    CEA   ), the net
capital of MSDW would be less than the greatest of (A) six (6) percentum of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and Commodities Futures Trading Commission (   CFTC   ) Regulations and the foreign
futures or foreign options secured amount exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers of MSDW on or subject to the rules of a contract market or a foreign board of trade,  provided  the deduction for each
option customer shall be limited to the amount of customer funds in each option customer s account(s), and foreign futures and foreign options secured amounts plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than
the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, (B) such amount as may be made applicable
to MSDW at the time of such payment by an Examining Authority under Rule 15c3-1(b)(7), or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA and CFTC Regulations), or      (iv) if MSDW s net capital, as defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in effect at the time such payment is to be made would be
less than 120 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such payment by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the Rule as in effect at such time or such dollar amount as may be
made applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority, plus an  
       
   A-2   

amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the
CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (v) if MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA and if its net capital, as defined in the CEA or CFTC Regulations as in effect at the time of such payment, would be less than 120 percentum (or such other percentum
as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the CEA or the regulations thereunder as in effect at such time (or such other dollar amount as may be made applicable to MSDW by the Examining
Authority at the time of such payment), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member
FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (vi) if MSDW is subject to the
provisions of paragraph (a)(6)(v) or (a)(7)(iv) or (c)(2)(x)(B)(1) of the Rule, its net capital would be less than the amount required to satisfy the 1,000 percentum test (or such other percentum test as may be made applicable to MSDW by the
Examining Authority at the time of such payment) stated in such applicable paragraph, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the
CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes.      The net
capital required by (i)-(vi) above is hereinafter referred to as the  Applicable Minimum Capital . During any such suspension, MSDW shall, as promptly as consistent with the protection of its customers, reduce its business to a
condition whereby payment due under Payment Obligations could be made (together with the payment of any other subordinated obligation of MSDW payable at or prior to such payment) without MSDW s net capital being below the Applicable Minimum
Capital, at which time MSDW shall make payment due under Payment Obligations on not less than five (5) days prior written notice to the Examining Authority.      (b) If immediately after any payment of a Payment Obligation MSDW s net capital is less than the Applicable Minimum Capital, whether or not the Participant had any knowledge or notice of such fact at the time of
any such payment, a Participant must repay to MSDW, its successors or assigns, any sum so paid, to be held by MSDW pursuant to the provisions of the Plan as if such payment had never been made;  provided ,  however , that any suit for the
recovery of any such payment must be commenced within two years of the date of such payment. MSDW reserves the right to withhold from the Participant s compensation the amount of any Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as
required herein.      (c) If, pursuant to the terms hereof, payment of MSDW s Payment Obligations are suspended, MSDW may be summarily
suspended by the Examining Authority.       

4.  
   Permissive Prepayment         With the prior written
permission of the Examining Authority, MSDW may, at its option and to the extent permitted by the Plan, pay all or any portion of the Payment Obligation to the Participant (such payment hereinafter referred to as a
   Prepayment   ) at any time subsequent to  
       
   A-3   

one year from the date subordinated funds became subject to this Appendix A. No Prepayment shall be made, however, if after giving effect thereto (and to all
other payments of any other subordinated obligation of MSDW payable within six months of such Prepayment) without reference to any projected profit or loss of MSDW,      (i) in the event that MSDW is not operating pursuant to the alternative net capital requirement provided for in paragraph (f) of the
Rule, the aggregate indebtedness of MSDW would exceed 1,000 percentum of its net capital as those terms are defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in effect at the time such Prepayment is to be made (or such other percentum as may be made
applicable at such time to MSDW by the Examining Authority), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital
Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (ii) in the
event that MSDW is operating pursuant to such alternative net capital requirement, the net capital of MSDW would be less than 5 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining
Authority) of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with Exhibit A to Rule 15c3-3 under the Act or any successor rule as in effect at such time, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT,
which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (iii) in the event that MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA, the net capital of MSDW (as defined in the CEA
or CFTC Regulations as in effect at the time of such Prepayment) would be less than the greatest of (A) 7 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of the
funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and CFTC Regulations and the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers on or subject to the rules of a
contract market or a foreign board of trade (provided the deduction for each option customer shall be limited to the amount of customer funds in each option customer s account(s) and foreign futures and foreign options secured amounts), plus an
amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits
cannot be used for margin purposes, (B) such amount as may be made applicable to MSDW by an Examining Authority under Rule 15c3-1(b)(7), or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA or CFTC Regulations), or      (iv) MSDW s net capital, as defined in the Rule or any successor rule as in effect at the time of such Prepayment, would be less than
120 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the Rule as in effect at such time (or such other dollar amount as may be
made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT
 Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or         
   A-4   

(v) in the event that MSDW is registered as a futures commission merchant under the CEA,
its net capital, as defined in the CEA or the regulations thereunder, as in effect at the time of such Prepayment would be less than 120 percentum (or such other percentum as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the
Examining Authority) of the minimum dollar amount required by the CEA or the regulations thereunder as in effect as such time or such other dollar amount as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment by the Examining Authority,
plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such
deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, or      (vi) in the event that MSDW is subject to the provisions of paragraph
(a)(6)(v) or (a)(7)(iv) or (c)(2)(x)(B)(1) of the Rule, the net capital of MSDW would be less than the amount required to satisfy the 1000 percentum test (or such other percentum test as may be made applicable to MSDW at the time of such Prepayment
by the Examining Authority) stated in such applicable paragraph, plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital
Requirements for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes.      If Prepayment is made of all or
any part of the Payment Obligation before the date payment is due and if MSDW s net capital is less than the amount required to permit such Prepayment pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the Participant agrees irrevocably
(whether or not such Participant had any knowledge or notice of such fact at the time of such Prepayment) to repay MSDW, its successors or assigns, the sum so paid to be held by MSDW pursuant to the provisions hereof as if such Prepayment had never
been made;  provided ,  however , that any suit for the recovery of any such Prepayment must be commenced within two years of the date of such Prepayment. MSDW reserves the right to withhold from the Participant s compensation the
amount of any Payment Obligation which a Participant fails to repay as required herein.       

5.  
   Special Prepayment         MSDW, at its option and as
permitted by the Plan, but not at the option of the Participant, may make a payment of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation hereunder sooner than one year from the date on which such amount became subject to this agreement (a
   Special Prepayment   ), if the written consent of the appropriate regulatory authority is first obtained. If MSDW shall be a futures commission merchant, as that term is defined in the CEA and CFTC Regulations, no such
prepayment shall be made if:      (i) after giving effect thereto (and to all payments of payment obligations under any other
Subordination Agreements then outstanding, the maturities or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such Special Prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on
which the Payment  
       
   A-5   

Obligation in respect to such Special Prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any
projected profit or loss of MSDW, the net capital of MSDW is less than the greatest of (A) 10 percentum of the funds required to be segregated pursuant to the CEA and CFTC Regulations and the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount,
exclusive of the market value of commodity options purchased by option customers of MSDW on or subject to the rules of a contract market or a foreign board of trade (provided the deduction for each option customer shall be limited to the amount of
customer funds in such option customer s account(s) and foreign futures and foreign options secured amount), plus an amount equal to the guaranty deposits with clearing organizations, other than the CBOT, which were included in current assets
under Section 211 of the CBOT  Capital Requirement for Member FCM s , to the extent such deposits cannot be used for margin purposes, (B) if MSDW is a securities broker or dealer, the amount of net capital specified in Rule
15c3-1(c)(5)(ii) of the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.l5c3-1d(c)5(ii), or (C) $2,000,000 (or such other amount as required by the CEA or CFTC Regulations), or      (ii) Pretax losses during the latest three month period were greater than 15% of current excess adjusted net capital.       

6.  
   Maturity Upon Certain Events         Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 3 hereof, the Payment Obligation shall (to the extent not already matured) forthwith mature, together with all other Subordination Agreements then outstanding in the event of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation
pursuant to SIPA or otherwise, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws, or any other marshaling of the assets and liabilities of MSDW.       

7.  
   Miscellaneous Provisions         (a) Participants may not
rely upon any commodity exchange or securities exchange to provide any information concerning or relating to MSDW Such exchanges have no responsibility to disclose to the Participant any information concerning or relating to MSDW which they may have
now or at any future time. The Participant agrees that the New York Stock Exchange (the    NYSE   ), its Special Trust Fund or any director, officer, trustee or employee of the NYSE or said Trust Fund or any other exchange or
director, officer, trustee or employee thereof shall not be liable to the Participant with respect to the Plan or any distribution pursuant thereto.      (b) The funds represented by the Payment Obligation shall be dealt with in all respects as capital of MSDW, shall be subject to the risks of the business and may be deposited in an account or accounts in MSDW s
name in any bank or trust company.      (c) Payment Obligations under the Plan may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise
encumbered or disposed of and no lien, charge or other encumbrance may be created or permitted to be created hereon, without the prior written consent of the Examining Authority.         
   A-6   

(d) If MSDW is a futures commission merchant as that term is defined in the CEA, MSDW agrees, consistent
with the requirements of Section l.17(h) of CFTC Regulations that whenever prior written notice by MSDW to the Examining Authority is required pursuant to the provisions of this agreement the same prior written notice shall be given by MSDW to
(1) the CFTC at its principal office in Washington, D.C., Attention: Chief Accountant of Division of Trading and Markets, and/or (2) the commodity exchanges of which MSDW is a member and which are then designated by the CFTC as MSDW s
designated self-regulatory organizations as defined in Section 1.3(ff) of the CFTC Regulations (the    DSROs   ).      (e)    Subordination Agreement    as used herein shall include any subordinated loan agreement and any secured demand note agreement constituting a satisfactory subordination agreement under the Rule under which MSDW is
the borrower or the pledgee of collateral, and reference herein to the payment of a subordinated obligation of MSDW shall be deemed to include the return to the maker-pledgor of any secured demand note and the collateral therefore held by MSDW
     (f) The term    Examining Authority    shall refer to the regulatory body, specified in paragraph (c)(12) of the Rule,
responsible for inspecting or examining MSDW for compliance with financial responsibility requirements. If MSDW is and continues to be a member of the NYSE, the references herein to the Examining Authority shall be deemed to refer to the NYSE. If
MSDW is and continues to be a futures commission merchant as that term is defined in the CEA and regulations thereunder, references to the Examining Authority shall also be deemed to refer to the CFTC and MSDW s DSROs.      (g) The provisions of this Appendix A shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of MSDW, its successors and assigns, and the Participant and the
Participant s heirs, executors and administrators.      (h) Any controversy arising out of or relating to this Plan shall be submitted to
and settled by arbitration pursuant to the Constitution and Rules of the NYSE. MSDW and Participant shall be conclusively bound by such arbitration.      (i) MSDW shall not modify, amend or cancel this Appendix or any provision of the Plan governing the Payment Obligations that are the subject of this Appendix without the prior approval of the Examining Authority.
     (j) This agreement shall be deemed to have been made under and shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York.         
   A-7   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.39>
 12
 dex1039.htm
 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN AS AMENDED & RESTATED AS OF NOV 26,2007

2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan as amended   restated as of Nov 26,2007 

EXHIBIT 10.39        MORGAN STANLEY        2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        (Amended and Restated as of November 26, 2007)       1.  Purpose.  The primary purposes of the Morgan Stanley 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan are to attract, retain and motivate employees, to compensate them for their contributions to the growth and profits
of the Company and to encourage them to own Morgan Stanley Stock.      2.  Definitions.  Except as otherwise provided in an applicable
Award Document, the following capitalized terms shall have the meanings indicated below for purposes of the Plan and any Award:         Administrator    means the individual or individuals to whom the Committee delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with Section 5(b).         Award    means any award of Restricted Stock, Stock Units, Options, SARs or Other Awards (or any combination thereof) made under
and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.         Award Date    means the date specified in a Participant s Award
Document as the grant date of the Award.         Award Document    means a written document (including in electronic form)
that sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Documents shall be authorized in accordance with Section 12(e).         Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.         Code    means the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable rulings, regulations and guidance thereunder.         Committee   
means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan or to have authority with respect to the Plan, or
any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.         Company    means Morgan Stanley and all of its Subsidiaries.
        Eligible Individuals    means the individuals described in Section 6 who are eligible for Awards.   
     Employee Trust    means any trust established or maintained by the Company in connection with an employee benefit plan
(including the Plan) under which current and former employees of the Company constitute the principal beneficiaries.         
   1   

Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the
applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.         Fair Market Value    means, with respect to a Share, the fair market
value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.         Incentive Stock Option    means an Option that is intended to qualify for special federal income tax treatment pursuant to Sections 421 and 422 of the Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a
successor provision of the Code, and which is so designated in the applicable Award Document.         Morgan Stanley   
means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation.         Option    or    Stock Option    means a right,
granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9, to purchase one Share.         Other Award    means any other form of
award authorized under Section 11 of the Plan, including any such Other Award the receipt of which was elected pursuant to Section 12(a).         Participant    means an individual to whom an Award has been made.         Plan    means
the Morgan Stanley 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time in accordance with Section 15(e) below.         Restricted Stock    means Shares granted or sold to a Participant pursuant to Section 7.         SAR    means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10, to receive upon exercise of such right, in cash or Shares (or a combination thereof) as authorized by the Committee, an amount equal to the
increase in the Fair Market Value of one Share over a specified exercise price.         Section 162(m) Participant   
means, for a given fiscal year of Morgan Stanley, any Participant designated by the Committee as a Participant whose compensation may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor
provisions thereto).         Section 162(m) Performance Goals    means the performance formula that was approved by Morgan
Stanley s stockholders on March 22, 2001 or any other performance formula or performance goals approved by Morgan Stanley s stockholders pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).         Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).         Shares    means shares of Stock.         Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Morgan Stanley.         
   2   

Stock Unit    means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8,
to receive one Share or an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share, as authorized by the Committee.         Subsidiary    means (i) a corporation or other entity with respect to which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has the power, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, to
elect at least a majority of the members of such corporation s board of directors or analogous governing body, or (ii) any other corporation or other entity in which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has an equity or similar interest
and which the Committee designates as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.         Substitute Awards    means Awards
granted upon assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company or other entity acquired (directly or indirectly) by Morgan Stanley or with which Morgan Stanley combines.       3. Effective Date and Term of Plan.       (a)  Effective Date . The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board, subject to its approval by Morgan Stanley s stockholders. Prior to such stockholder approval, the Committee may grant Awards conditioned on
stockholder approval, but no Shares may be issued or delivered pursuant to any such Award until Morgan Stanley s stockholders have approved the Plan. If such stockholder approval is not obtained at or before the first annual meeting of
stockholders to occur after the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Plan and any Awards made thereunder shall terminate  ab initio  and be of no further force and effect.      (b)  Term of Plan.  No Awards may be made under the Plan after the date that is five years from the date of shareholder approval.       4. Stock Subject to Plan.       (a)
 Overall Plan Limit . The total number of Shares that may be delivered pursuant to Awards shall be 100,000,000 as calculated pursuant to Section 4(c). The number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan shall be adjusted as provided
in Section 4(b). Shares delivered under the Plan may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares that Morgan Stanley acquires in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise.      (b)  Adjustments for Certain Transactions . In the event of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization,
merger, consolidation, extraordinary dividend or distribution, split-up, spin-off, combination, reclassification or exchange of shares, warrants or rights offering to purchase Stock at a price substantially below Fair Market Value or other change in
corporate structure or any other event that affects Morgan Stanley s capitalization, the Committee shall equitably adjust (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for delivery under the Plan, including the maximum number of Shares
available for Awards of Options or SARs as provided in Section 4(d) and the maximum number of Incentive Stock Options as provided in Section 4(e), and (ii) the number and kind of shares subject to any outstanding Award and the
exercise or purchase price per share, if any, under any outstanding Award. In the discretion of the Committee, such an adjustment may take the form of a cash payment to a Participant. The Committee shall make all such adjustments, and its
determination as to what adjustments shall be  
       
   3   

made, and the extent thereof, shall be final. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, such adjusted Awards shall be subject to the same vesting schedule
and restrictions to which the underlying Award is subject.      (c)  Calculation of Shares Available for Delivery . In calculating the
number of Shares that remain available for delivery pursuant to Awards at any time, the following rules shall apply (subject to the limitation in Section 4(e)):      1. The number of Shares available for delivery shall be reduced by the number of Shares subject to an Award and, in the case of an Award
that is not denominated in Shares, the number of Shares actually delivered upon payment or settlement of the Award.      2. The
number of Shares tendered (by actual delivery or attestation) or withheld from an Award to pay the exercise price of the Award or to satisfy any tax withholding obligation or liability of a Participant shall be added back to the number of Shares
available for delivery pursuant to Awards.      3. The number of Shares in respect of any portion of an Award that is canceled
or that expires without having been paid or settled by the Company shall be added back to the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards to the extent such Shares were counted against the Shares available for delivery pursuant to
clause (1).      4. If an Award is settled or paid by the Company in whole or in part through the delivery of consideration
other than Shares, or by delivery of fewer than the full number of Shares that was counted against the Shares available for delivery pursuant to clause (1), there shall be added back to the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards
the excess of the number of Shares that had been so counted over the number of Shares (if any) actually delivered upon payment or settlement of the Award.      5. Any Shares underlying Substitute Awards shall not be counted against the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards and shall not be subject to Section 4(d).      (d)  Individual Limit on Options and SARs . The maximum number of Shares that may be subject to Options or SARs granted to or elected by a
Participant in any fiscal year shall be 2,000,000 Shares. The limitation imposed by this Section 4(d) shall not include Options or SARs granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 162(m) Performance Goals.      (e)  ISO Limit . The full number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan may be delivered pursuant to Incentive Stock Options, except that
in calculating the number of Shares that remain available for Awards of Incentive Stock Options the rules set forth in Section 4(c) shall not apply to the extent not permitted by Section 422 of the Code.       5. Administration.       (a)  Committee
Authority Generally . The Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have full power and authority to make all determinations under the Plan, subject to the express provisions hereof, including without limitation: (i) to select
Participants from among the Eligible Individuals; (ii) to make Awards; (iii) to determine the number of Shares subject to each Award  
       
   4   

or the cash amount payable in connection with an Award; (iv) to establish the terms and conditions of each Award, including, without limitation, those
related to vesting, cancellation, payment, exercisability, and the effect, if any, of certain events on a Participant s Awards, such as the Participant s termination of employment with the Company; (v) to specify and approve the
provisions of the Award Documents delivered to Participants in connection with their Awards; (vi) to construe and interpret any Award Document delivered under the Plan; (vii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and procedures relating to
the Plan; (viii) to make all determinations necessary or advisable in administering the Plan and Awards, including without limitation determinations as to whether (and if so as of what date) a Participant has commenced, or has experienced a
termination of, employment;  provided ,  however , that to the extent full or partial payment of any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A is made upon or as a result of a Participant s
termination of employment, the Participant will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment if, and only if, the Participant has experienced a separation from service with the Participant s employer for purposes of
Section 409A; (ix) to vary the terms of Awards to take account of securities law and other legal or regulatory requirements of jurisdictions in which Participants work or reside or to procure favorable tax treatment for Participants; and
(x) to formulate such procedures as it considers to be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.      (b)
 Delegation . To the extent not prohibited by applicable laws or rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the Committee may from time to time delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan to one or more Administrators consisting of one or
more members of the Committee as a subcommittee or subcommittees thereof or of one or more members of the Board who are not members of the Committee or one or more officers of the Company (or of any combination of such persons). Any such delegation
shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation or thereafter. The Committee may at any time rescind all or part of the authority delegated to an Administrator or appoint a new
Administrator. At all times, an Administrator appointed under this Section 5(b) shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Committee. Any action undertaken by an Administrator in accordance with the Committee s delegation of
authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by the Committee, and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of such delegation, be deemed to include a
reference to an Administrator.      (c)  Authority to Construe and Interpret . The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject
to the express provisions hereof, to construe and interpret the Plan.      (d)  Committee Discretion . All of the Committee s
determinations in carrying out, administering, construing and interpreting the Plan shall be made or taken in its sole discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons. In the event of any disagreement
between the Committee and an Administrator, the Committee s determination on such matter shall be final and binding on all interested persons, including any Administrator. The Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform
and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled,
among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Documents, as to the persons receiving Awards under the Plan, and the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan.   
     
   5   

(e)  No Liability . Subject to applicable law: (i) no member of the Committee or any
Administrator shall be liable for anything whatsoever in connection with the exercise of authority under the Plan or the administration of the Plan except such person s own willful misconduct; (ii) under no circumstances shall any member
of the Committee or any Administrator be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee or an Administrator; and (iii) in the performance of its functions with respect to the Plan, the Committee and an Administrator shall
be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Company s officers, the Company s accountants, the Company s counsel and any other party the Committee or the Administrator deems necessary, and no member of the
Committee or any Administrator shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in good faith reliance upon any such advice.       6. 
 Eligibility.  Eligible Individuals shall include all officers, other employees (including prospective employees) and consultants of, and other persons who perform services for, the Company, non-employee directors of Subsidiaries and employees
and consultants of joint ventures, partnerships or similar business organizations in which Morgan Stanley or a Subsidiary has an equity or similar interest. Any Award made to a prospective employee shall be conditioned upon, and effective not
earlier than, such person s becoming an employee. Members of the Board who are not Company employees will not be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan. An individual s status as an Administrator will not affect his or her eligibility
to receive Awards under the Plan.       7.   Restricted Stock.  An Award of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the terms and
conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Restricted Stock may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under
specified circumstances.       8.   Stock Units.  An Award of Stock Units shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by
the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Each Stock Unit awarded to a Participant shall correspond to one Share. Upon satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Award, a Stock Unit will be
payable, at the discretion of the Committee, in Stock or in cash equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of one Share. As a holder of Stock Units, a Participant shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Morgan Stanley.
A Participant shall not be a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying Stock Units unless and until the Stock Units convert to Shares. Stock Units may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or
cancellation under specified circumstances.       9. Options.       (a)  Options Generally . An Award of Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award
and specified in the applicable Award Document. The Committee shall establish (or shall authorize the method for establishing) the exercise price of all Options awarded under the Plan, except that the exercise  
       
   6   

price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise price of
an Option that is a Substitute Award may be less than the Fair Market Value per Share on the Award Date, provided that such substitution complies with applicable laws and regulations, including the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange
and Section 409A or Section 424, as applicable, of the Code. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to exercisability of the Award, a Participant shall be entitled to exercise the Options included in the Award and to have delivered, upon
Morgan Stanley s receipt of payment of the exercise price and completion of any other conditions or procedures specified by Morgan Stanley, the number of Shares in respect of which the Options shall have been exercised. Options may be either
nonqualified stock options or Incentive Stock Options. Options and the Shares acquired upon exercise of Options may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
     (b)  Prohibition on Restoration Option Grants . Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the terms of an Option shall
not provide that a new Option will be granted, automatically and without additional consideration in excess of the exercise price of the underlying Option, to a Participant upon exercise of the Option.      (c)  Prohibition on Repricing of Options and SARs . Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the Committee may not reprice any Option
or SAR.  Reprice  means any of the following or any other action that has the same effect: (i) amending an Option or SAR to reduce its exercise price, (ii) canceling an Option or SAR at a time when its exercise price exceeds the
Fair Market Value of one Share in exchange for an Option, SAR, Restricted Stock, Stock Unit or other equity award, unless the cancellation or exchange occurs in connection with a merger, acquisition, spin-off or other similar corporate transaction;
or (iii) taking any other action that is treated as a repricing under generally accepted accounting principles;  provided, however , that adjustments pursuant to Section 4(b) shall not be deemed to be a repricing that is prohibited by
this Section 9(c).      (d)  Payment of Exercise Price . Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award Document and to the extent
authorized by rules and procedures of Morgan Stanley from time to time, the exercise price of the Option may be paid in cash, by actual delivery or attestation to ownership of freely transferable Shares already owned by the person exercising the
Option, or by such other means as Morgan Stanley may authorize.      (e)  Maximum Term on Stock Options and SARs . No Option or SAR shall
have an expiration date that is later than the tenth anniversary of the Award Date thereof.       10.   SARs.  An Award of SARs shall
be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. The Committee shall establish (or shall authorize the method for establishing) the exercise price of all
SARs awarded under the Plan, except that the exercise price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise price of any SAR that is a Substitute Award may be
less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date, subject to the same conditions set forth in Section 9(a) for Options that are Substitute Awards. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to the payment of the Award, each SAR shall
entitle a Participant to an amount, if any, equal to the Fair Market Value  
       
   7   

of one Share on the date of exercise over the SAR exercise price specified in the applicable Award Document. At the discretion of the Committee, payments to
a Participant upon exercise of an SAR may be made in Shares, cash or a combination thereof. SARs and the Shares that may be acquired upon exercise of SARs may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or
cancellation under specified circumstances.       11.   Other Awards.  The Committee shall have the authority to establish the terms
and provisions of other forms of equity-based or equity-related Awards (such terms and provisions to be specified in the applicable Award Document) not described above that the Committee determines to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan and
the interests of the Company, which Awards may provide for (i) cash or Stock payments based in whole or in part on the value or future value of Stock or on any amount that Morgan Stanley pays as dividends or otherwise distributes with respect
to Stock, (ii) the acquisition or future acquisition of Stock, (iii) cash or Stock payments (including payment of dividend equivalents in cash or Stock) based on one or more criteria determined by the Committee unrelated to the value of
Stock, or (iv) any combination of the foregoing. Awards pursuant to this Section 11 may, among other things, be made subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.       12. General Terms and Provisions.       (a)  Awards in General . Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation payable to an Eligible Individual. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized
by the Committee, an Eligible Individual may elect one form of Award in lieu of any other form of Award, or may elect to receive an Award in lieu of all or part of any compensation that otherwise might have been paid to such Eligible Individual;
 provided ,  however , that any such election shall not require the Committee to make any Award to such Eligible Individual. Any such substitute or elective Awards shall have terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the Plan
applicable to such Award. Awards may be granted in tandem with, or independent of, other Awards. The grant, vesting or payment of an Award may, among other things, be conditioned on the attainment of performance objectives, including without
limitation objectives based in whole or in part on net income, pre-tax income, return on equity, earnings per share, total shareholder return or book value per share.      (b)  Discretionary Awards . All grants of Awards and deliveries of Shares, cash or other property under the Plan shall constitute a special discretionary incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be
required to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary, wages or other compensation of the Participant for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life
insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Company or other benefits from the Company or under any agreement with the Participant, unless Morgan Stanley specifically provides otherwise.      (c)  Dividends and Distributions . If Morgan Stanley pays any dividend or makes any distribution to holders of Stock, the Committee may in its
discretion authorize payments (which may be in cash, Stock (including Restricted Stock) or Stock Units or a combination thereof) with respect to the Shares corresponding to an Award, or may authorize appropriate adjustments to outstanding Awards, to
reflect such dividend or distribution. The Committee may make any  
       
   8   

such payments subject to vesting, deferral, restrictions on transfer or other conditions. Any determination by the Committee with respect to a
Participant s entitlement to receive any amounts related to dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such entitlement, if any, will be part of the terms and conditions of the Award, and will be
included in the Award Document for such Award.      (d)  Deferrals . In accordance with the procedures authorized by, and subject to the
approval of, the Committee, Participants may be given the opportunity to defer the payment or settlement of an Award to one or more dates selected by the Participant. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to
Section 409A, the Committee shall set forth in writing (which may be in electronic form), on or before the date the applicable deferral election is required to be irrevocable in order to meet the requirements of Section 409A, the
conditions under which such election may be made.      (e)  Award Documentation and Award Terms . The terms and conditions of an Award
shall be set forth in an Award Document authorized by the Committee. The Award Document shall include any vesting, exercisability, payment and other restrictions applicable to an Award (which may include, without limitation, the effects of
termination of employment, cancellation of the Award under specified circumstances, restrictions on transfer or provision for mandatory resale to the Company).      (f)  Awards to Section 162(m) Participants . Except for Options and SARs the shares underlying which are counted against the individual limit set forth in Section 4(d), all Awards to Section 162(m)
Participants shall be made pursuant to the attainment of Section 162(m) Performance Goals as certified by the Committee in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. Without any further action by the Board or the
Committee, this Section 12(f) shall cease to apply on the effective date of the repeal of Section 162(m) of the Code (and any successor provision thereto).       13. Certain Restrictions.       (a)  Stockholder Rights.  No Participant (or other persons having
rights pursuant to an Award) shall have any of the rights of a stockholder of Morgan Stanley with respect to Shares subject to an Award until the delivery of the Shares, which shall be effected by entry of the Participant s (or other
person s) name in the share register of Morgan Stanley or by such other procedure as may be authorized by Morgan Stanley. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4(b) or 12(c), no adjustments shall be made for dividends or distributions
on, or other events relating to, Shares subject to an Award for which the record date is prior to the date such Shares are delivered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of an Employee Trust may authorize some or all Participants to give voting
or tendering instructions to the trustee thereof in respect of Shares that are held in such Employee Trust and are subject to Awards. Except for the risk of cancellation and the restrictions on transfer that may apply to certain Shares (including
restrictions relating to any dividends or other rights) or as otherwise set forth in the applicable Award Document, the Participant shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares delivered to the Participant in connection with an Award and, upon such
delivery shall be entitled to all rights of ownership, including, without limitation, the right to vote the Shares and to receive cash dividends or other dividends (whether in Shares, other securities or other property) thereon.         
   9   

(b)  Transferability . No Award granted under the Plan shall be transferable, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; provided that, except with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the Committee may permit transfers on such terms and conditions as it shall determine. During the lifetime
of a Participant to whom Incentive Stock Options were awarded, such Incentive Stock Options shall be exercisable only by the Participant.       14.   Representation; Compliance with Law.  The Committee may condition the grant, exercise, settlement or retention of any Award on the Participant making any representations required in the applicable Award Document. Each Award
shall also be conditioned upon the making of any filings and the receipt of any consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable law.       15. Miscellaneous Provisions.       (a)
 Satisfaction of Obligations . As a condition to the making or retention of any Award, the vesting, exercise or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, Morgan Stanley may require a Participant to pay such sum
to the Company as may be necessary to discharge the Company s obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA and other social security or similar tax) imposed on property or income received by a
Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any obligation that the Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by Morgan Stanley, (i) such payment may be in the form of cash or other property,
including the tender of previously owned Shares, and (ii) in satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or, exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to
Section 409A, of other obligations that a Participant owes to the Company, Morgan Stanley may make available for delivery a lesser number of Shares in payment or settlement of an Award, may withhold from any payment or distribution of an Award
or may enter into any other suitable arrangements to satisfy such withholding or other obligation. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not offset from the payment of such Award
amounts that a Participant owes to the Company with respect to any such other obligation except to the extent such offset is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income
tax purposes prior to the time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (b)  No Right to
Continued Employment . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall give rise to any right on the part of any Participant to continue in the employ of the Company.      (c)  Headings . The headings of sections herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.      (d)  Governing Law . The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York,
without regard to any conflicts or choice of law, rule or principle that might otherwise refer the interpretation of the award to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.         
   10   

(e)  Amendments and Termination . The Board or Committee may modify, amend, suspend or terminate the
Plan in whole or in part at any time and may modify or amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award (including by amending or supplementing the relevant Award Document at any time); provided, however, that no such modification, amendment,
suspension or termination shall, without a Participant s consent, materially adversely affect that Participant s rights with respect to any Award previously made; and provided, further, that the Committee shall have the right at any time,
without a Participant s consent and whether or not the Participant s rights are materially adversely affected thereby, to amend or modify the Plan or any Award under the Plan in any manner that the Committee considers necessary or
advisable to comply with any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standards, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, neither the Board nor the Committee may accelerate the payment or
settlement of any Award, including, without limitation, any Award subject to a prior deferral election, that constitutes a deferral of compensation for purposes of Section 409A except to the extent such acceleration would not result in the
Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A. No amendment to the Plan may render any Board member who is not a Company employee eligible to receive an Award at any time while such member is serving on the Board. To the
extent required by applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, amendments to the Plan shall not be effective unless they are approved by Morgan Stanley s stockholders.         
   11   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.41>
 13
 dex1041.htm
 GOVERNMENTAL SERVICE AMENDMENT TO OUTSTANDING STOCK OPTION

Governmental Service Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option 

EXHIBIT 10.41        G OVERNMENTAL  S ERVICE  A MENDMENT         T O 
O UTSTANDING  S TOCK  O PTION   AND  S TOCK  U NIT  A WARDS        Pursuant to its authority under the applicable Award Certificate and Morgan Stanley equity compensation plan to modify or amend the terms of stock options and stock units, Morgan Stanley hereby amends, effective as of
March 18, 2007, the terms and conditions of each of your outstanding stock option and/or stock unit awards (including any such awards that are payable in cash) other than any such awards that were fully earned and vested within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder, as of December 31, 2004 (each such award to be amended, a    Covered Award   ). The Award Certificate for each
of your Covered Awards is amended to add the following:      (a)   General treatment of stock units and stock options upon
Governmental Service Termination.   If your employment with the Firm (or your Employment, if applicable to the award) terminates in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event as set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate then, provided that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to paragraph (c) below, (i) all of your unvested stock units will vest, and your vested stock units will convert to shares
of Morgan Stanley common stock, on the date of your Governmental Service Termination; (ii) all of your unvested stock options will vest on the date of your Governmental Service Termination, and your vested stock options will expire on the date
provided for in the applicable Award Certificate; and (iii) the transfer restrictions set forth in the applicable Award Certificate will no longer apply to your Option Shares (or Net Option Shares, as applicable).      (b)   General treatment of vested stock units and Option Shares upon acceptance of employment at a Governmental Employer following
termination of Employment.   If your employment with the Firm (or Employment, if applicable) terminates other than in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event and, following your termination of employment with
the Firm (or termination of Employment, if applicable), you accept employment with a Governmental Employer, then, provided that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to paragraph (c) below
(i) all of your outstanding vested stock units will convert to shares upon your commencement of such employment; and (ii) the transfer restrictions set forth in the applicable Award Certificate will no longer apply to your Option Shares
(or Net Option Shares, as applicable) upon your commencement of such employment, provided in either such case that you present the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment the divestiture of your continued
interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflict of interests law applicable to you at
such Governmental Employer.      (c)   Repayment obligation.   If you engage in any activity constituting a
cancellation event set forth in the applicable Award Certificate within the applicable period of time that would have resulted in cancellation of all or a portion of your stock units (had  
       
   1   

they not converted to shares pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) above), stock options or Option Shares (or Net Option Shares, as applicable), then
you will be required to pay to Morgan Stanley an amount equal to (i) the number of stock units that would have been canceled upon the occurrence of such cancellation event, multiplied by the fair market value, determined using a valuation
methodology established by Morgan Stanley, of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your stock units converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock; and (ii) the amount you were required to recognize as income for federal income tax
purposes in connection with your exercise of any such stock options that would have been canceled; and, in each case, (iii) interest on such amount at the average rate of interest Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions
during the period from the date of such conversion or exercise, as applicable, through the date preceding the payment date.         Governmental Employer    means a governmental department or agency, self-regulatory agency or other public service employer.         Governmental Service Termination    means the termination of your employment with the Firm (or your termination of
Employment, if applicable to the award) as a result of accepting employment at a Governmental Employer and you provide Morgan Stanley with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such new employment, the divestiture of your continued
interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership in Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at
such Governmental Employer.      Capitalized terms used in this Amendment without definition have the meanings set forth in the applicable
Award Certificate(s).      If your Covered Award does not include stock options, the terms of this Amendment relating to stock options will not
apply to such award. If your Covered Award does not include stock units, the terms of this Amendment relating to stock units will not apply to such Award.      Except as expressly modified by this Amendment, your Covered Awards shall continue to be governed in accordance with their terms.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Morgan Stanley has duly executed and delivered this Amendment to your Award Certificate(s) as of March 18, 2007.        

MORGAN STANLEY    

/s/ Thomas R. Nides   
 
  Thomas R. Nides   
 
  Chief Administrative Officer   

2   

</EX-10.41>

<EX-12>
 14
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12    
         Morgan Stanley        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends        (dollars in millions)          

(1)  
  Income before income taxes does not include losses from unconsolidated investees, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, gain/(loss) on discontinued
operations, cumulative effect of accounting change (net).               Fixed charges  consist of interest cost, including interest on deposit, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, and that portion of rent expense estimated to be representative of
the interest factor.            The preferred stock dividend amounts
represent pre-tax earnings required to cover dividends on preferred stock.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 15
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF MORGAN STANLEY

Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley 

Exhibit 21        Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007      Indentations indicate parent-subsidiary relationships.

Company    
      
     Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation     

Morgan Stanley    
      
  Delaware   
 
    Arara LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayview Holding Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine DE Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Belmondo LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cauca LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Corporate Equipment Supplies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Financial Products LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Alliance Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Holding Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Civic Center Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lewiston Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sartell Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Fourth Income Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Growth Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Realty Management Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Venture Equities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Demeter Management Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Early Adopter Fund Manager Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fuegos LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    FV-I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Global Special Situations III Funding L.P   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hudson Resources, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ISG Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Core Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jolter Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merope LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Electra Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Maia Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Millport Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Millport I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Rundle Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MR Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DigitalGlobe, Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DigitalGlobe Asia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EarthWatch Mississippi Operations Incorporated   
      
  Mississippi   
 
    GlobeXplorer LLC   
      
  California   
 
    AirPhotoUSA, L.L.C.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Massachusetts) Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Ohio) Inc.   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Oklahoma) Inc.   
      
  Oklahoma   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Texas) Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Illinois) Inc.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services, Inc. (Puerto Rico)   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (Montana) Inc.   
      
  Montana   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services (New Hampshire) Inc.   
      
  New Hampshire   
 
    Design Enterprises Limited   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    Graystone Wealth Management Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Insurance Services (Arizona) Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Insurance Services (Arkansas) Inc.   
      
  Arkansas   
 
    Morgan Stanley Insurance Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Flexible Agreements Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Management Services II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Securities Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Prime Dealer Services Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TVN Entertainment Corp.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music (Holdings) Limited*   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Holdings (USA), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Entertainment Group Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musiteca Music Corporation   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 1 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Protel Records Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Revolu Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Soundmex Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    E Musica Records LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Publishing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Kubaney Acquisition, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gee Street Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Records (Canada) Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    V2 Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Music Publishing France S rl   
      
  France   
 
    V2 Music Publishing Holdings (USA) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gee Street Sounds, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    In Bed Music, Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Realization Music Ltd.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tunes of V2 America   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Songs of V2 America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Music of V2 America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music Publishing Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Publishing (Italy) S.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    V2 Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Altabridge Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amalthea UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amanu LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Makatea JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Moorea Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pinaki Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Raraka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tepoto Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Becketts LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Copse LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chapel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Woodcote Capital S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asti Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Piedmont Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cuneo Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Atlas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biscay LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alpha Investments LLP   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brunton SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kochi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Propus Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Alpino Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clare S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cork Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malabar Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Donegan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hoxne Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Byzantine S.A.R.L   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mildenhall S.A.R.L   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rosetta Investments S.A.R.L   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vindolanda Equity S.A.R.L   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Epsilon Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leitrim S. .r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kerry Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plymouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Viking LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fastnet LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fitzroy Partnership   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kite LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Firecrest LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plover Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Puffin LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Semaine Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Ras Dashen Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Boscastle Holding Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornerways Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Monmouth UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cayman Energy Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Heidmar Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GT Energy Corporation   
      
  Texas   
 
    Houston Marine Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Heidmar Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Canterbury Tankers LLC *   
      
  Marshall Islands   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 2 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Darien Tankers Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar International Pools Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Dorado Tankers Pool Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Marida Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Sigma Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Star Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Investments LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Euro LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Force Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Marine (Far East) LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar (Far East) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Heidmar UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Protank Shipping Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Lightering Holdings Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Trading LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidenreich Marine Caracas, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Norwalk Tankers Inc.*   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Q88.Com LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    QFleet Com LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Unicorn-Heidmar Tankers LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Intermediate Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Espa a), S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clean Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clean Development Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Development I (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Energy Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Petroleum Development LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Power Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Congeneracion Prat S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Minnewit B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Coal Trading Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LC Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Retail Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Energy LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Terminal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Finance, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Electric Development Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Generating Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Product Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Transport Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Coastal Tug and Barge, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Utility Contract Funding II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Management, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Iowa   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Minnesota   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Pennsylvania   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Tennessee   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    NOVUS Financial Corporation of Washington   
      
  Washington   
 
    NOVUS Receivables Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank   
      
  Utah   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Advance Receivables Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Baltic Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caspian Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Avondale 1 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Avondale 2 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Mortgage Capital, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Content Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter International Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter International Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds International, Inc.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds (Lugano) S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    River View International Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Wealth Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 3 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Distributors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durango LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Afdera Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amba Alagi LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ambasel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cimarron Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Riva Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Always Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    TM, Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Inter Capital Alliance Company Limited *   
      
  Thailand   
 
    MS China 1 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    DAH Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Dare Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 2 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 3 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 4 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 5 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSGHYLADD   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSJI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSJI 2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philippine Asset Investment (SPV - AMC) Inc.   
      
  The Philippines   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europa LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Callisto Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elara Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eurydome Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Holdings S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europe Reinsurance S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Reinsurance S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley White Horse UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Himalia Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sinope Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Adrastea Netherlands B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley IO Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Iocaste Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pasiphae Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leda Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stoneyside Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services USA LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Galway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies GP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley GWM Feeder Strategies Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Premier GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Home Loans Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Acheron Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Arigil Menkul Degerler A.S.   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Arno Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    European Principal Assets Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    City Mortgage Bank LLC (aka OOO  Gorodskoy Ipotechny Bank  or OOO

 )   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Credito Fondario e Industriale - Fonspa SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Primass - Promozioni e Assistenza Immobiliari - SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Psylon Holding Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Limited Liability Company Rinocenter   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Volmar Holdings Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Hybrid Capital Second Y.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    ITALSEC S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Lethe Ltd. *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley Advantage Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings IV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings VI Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific (Holdings) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 4 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation     or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) III LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Company   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Labuan Investment Bank Limited   
      
  Labuan/Malaysia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hong Kong) Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1238 Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Securities Products LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Limited

Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asia (Taiwan) Ltd.   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Futures Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Securities Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Consultancy (Beijing) Company Limited

People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1239 Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Information Technology (Shanghai) Limited 

People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bosphorus Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canmore Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caledonia Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan (Holdings) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    City Forum Capital Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Japan Group, Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Capital Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Remora Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJL Holdings 4682 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJL Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Holdings Co., Ltd. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    Hybrid Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Jipang Mortgage Finance Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tokyo Properties K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset   Investment Trust Management Co., Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Business Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital K.K. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    K.K. MST Investment Management *   
      
  Japan   
 
    Lombard Servicing Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Management Japan Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Real Estate Advisors KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Panorama Hospitality, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS CYM Preferred Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJS Preferred YK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSDW Birkdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Portrush Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Muirfield Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Lytham Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Swilken Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Management S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Finance Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Real Estate Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Servco Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Real Estate Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital S.A. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital (Luxembourg) S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cayman Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Hong Kong Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading (China) Limited

People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Morgan Stanley Donau GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grund S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Neckar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elbe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Espa a), S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Main GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Warta GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Werra GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Nominees Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 5 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Hungary Analytics Kft   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding II Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Group (Europe)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Advantage Home Loans Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bayfine UK Products   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bramley Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Europe) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance plc   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caballa Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gastoro Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintado Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Woburn IV Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn V Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Corporate Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments I Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments II Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Sunningdale Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wentworth Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gala Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (ACD) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley JY Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley JY Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Laxton   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Nan Tung Bank Ltd. Zhuhai

People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Property Management (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Funding Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Structured Products) Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Group   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barbera Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bondola Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kadarka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bowline Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bridel S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Strategic Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Lyle Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dover Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Penberthy Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Archimedes Investments Coopratieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Hanger Straight Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elz GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Saar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Denmark) ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fisher Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Ashwood Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn VI Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (France) SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Havel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Inn GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wupper GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lundy Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mandarin Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Harlequin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Metsys Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintail Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bonaire Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Tamboer Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Orangewood Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saenredam Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saldanha Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Neudorf S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rhein GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rivelino Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dolor Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerson Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tostao Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Denilson Company Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Everaldo LP   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Zico Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Silvermere Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shanklin Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Northcote Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 6 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Borderwijk Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Norton Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bermont Co-operatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Shavano Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Yarmouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wertpapiere GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSDW Turnberry Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Jubilee Investments Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Augusta Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Eden Investments Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Mallard Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Brit Alliance Finance B.V.*   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Carysforth Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Haddington Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Montgomerie Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Wadway 1 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wadway 2 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humboldt Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Marco Polo High Yield Financing srl *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Clearcreek, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Charbono Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fiano Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tannat Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Portland Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Raleigh Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Drake Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Drake II Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Eustatius Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Livingstone Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Woburn III Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    East Sussex Financing Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Cottenden Financing Unlimited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust IX   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities ACD Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morstan Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Equity (UK) Plc   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited (Legal Name

 )   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trustee Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    OOO Morgan Stanley Bank   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    MS Leasing UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (C.I.) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Willow Capital Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Korea) Limited

Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investments (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Isar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Spree GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Latin America Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Banco Morgan Stanley Dean Witter S.A.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Administadora de Carteiras S.A.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Corretora de T tulos e Valores Mobili rios S.A.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Uruguay Ltda.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    MSLA Advisors Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Butterfly Securities Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) II LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Securities Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    MSIM Global Support and Technology Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Middle East Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Servicing Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Newport S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Management Korea, Ltd   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley SGR (Societ  di Gestione del Risparmio) SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley South Africa (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Spanish Holdings S.L.U.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley SV, SAU   
      
  Spain   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 7 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    AB Asesores Ceuta, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, SV, SAU   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Consulting, Agencia de Seguros Exclusiva, S.A   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gesti n Pensiones EGFP, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gesti n SGIIC, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swiss Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Bank Morgan Stanley AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Fosbury Investments Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trading Beteiligungs-GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai II (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Finance (Netherlands) BV   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Equity Financing Services (Luxembourg) S. .r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MS Italy (Holdings) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSL Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV I (Cayman Islands) LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Farlington Company   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Providence DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Canada Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Providence Cayman Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence DE Investments Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Asia Indonesia *   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings V Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Securities Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities (Nominee) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Holdings   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Financial Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Finance Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter UK Capital Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter HK RAV IV, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The HK RAV IV Trust   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    The HK RAV IV Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The HK RAV V Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Finance S.A   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shannon Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brighton Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Insurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSIIL Captive Insurance, Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley Offshore Investment Company Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Select Investment Strategies Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley SerCo Solutions Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV II (Cayman Islands) LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Cabot 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Cabot Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (US) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Financial Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Weser GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Russet LLP   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 1 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Applied Risc Technologies Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cornwall Financing UK Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornwall Investments UK Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Holdings Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Hampshire Trading B.V. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Lancashire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Norfolk Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Suffolk Trading B.V. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wiltshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Yorkshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cumbria Investments   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Malta) Limited   
      
  Malta   
 
    Morgan Stanley Maple Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tipperary Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durham Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cheshire Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Langton Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 8 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mosell S.a.r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wiltz S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Longcross Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP (Cayman) GP Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP GP LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investment Partners LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Comprehensive Alternatives Fund I LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Franchise Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kristinestad LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Fund II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia Limited

Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Life Holding Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Limpopo LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Breede Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lomati LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tugela Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vaal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clova Investments LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malbec LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lyra SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hercules SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ursa SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Martin LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Oostburg B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Milla LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lineker LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ML Acquisition Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC   
      
  New York   
 
    Angle Merger Subsidiary Corporation   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asset Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIQ-I, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    MSMC 2006-FM-1, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSSHG I Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Saxon Capital, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Residential Mortgage Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Capital Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SCI Services, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Mortgage, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Holding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TRS Securities and Certificates, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Saxon Funding Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitized Assets LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Asset Securities Company   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Finance Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Services (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Preferred Strategies Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hungary) Financial Services Limited   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSXL Asia Pacific Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSXL China Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    SPV Columbus S.r.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Strategies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Multifamily Investment Platform, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA LL Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 9 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF I, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF I-CO, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II-CO, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Realty Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-Sartell Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brooks Harvey   Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Global Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Realty Finance Company   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Japan Realty Finance Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Corso Venezia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Germany GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Ltd.   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    MSK Management II, Ltd. *   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (Mauritius) India   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties India Real Estate Management Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    MSP China Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Advisory Corp. Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Beijing Kaili Asset Servicing Co., Ltd. *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (China) Co. Ltd.

People s Rep. of China   
 
    MSDI Investment Services *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Global, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Realty of California Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    MS Japan REIT Holding KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Japan Strategic Core Acquisition KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Realty of Illinois Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tokyo Realty Investment Company   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Tokyo Realty Investment Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Reinsurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biomass LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrighSource LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Geothermal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenrock LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Carson Solar I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewable Development Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star WMT I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wind LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Risk Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SECAP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Equity Products (Luxembourg) S. .r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitization Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Inversiones Sudamerica Uno Ltda   
      
  Republic of Chile   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Event Driven Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Leveraged Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Transaction Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley MSSF LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Capital), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Nova Scotia) Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Tenedora Dalia, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Canada Holding Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Canada Corp.   
      
  Nova Scotia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Special Situations Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stingray LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Structured Products (Cayman) I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barbera One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Three Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services MB/VC Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tindur LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Arete Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hubbard Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Drumlin JV Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 10 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Morgan Stanley Tower, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Broadway 522 Fifth JV LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital II B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley 750 Building Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley CS Aviation Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Delta LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW LTCP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Harrison LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trust   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trust National Association   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morstan Development Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Moranta, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Porstan Development Company, Inc.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    MS 10020, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CFN, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Debt Opportunities Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenrock LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Hawk I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Holdings Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS BCO GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS FIHF GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS GMEMN GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS JEMN GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS NAHV GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS US SMC GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ARS Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Fixed Income Group Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Macro Fund GP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners Cayman Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners GP LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley HFP Investment Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley IMDCP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Inc   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Holdings, Inc   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, Inc   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, L.L.C   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSPEA SLP III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Securities Global Best Ideas GP Inc   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Thematic Strategy GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Acquisition Sub X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding D Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding E Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding A Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding B Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSGFI Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TAM Investment Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Partners LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FPP Healthcare Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Asia Pacific GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Brookville Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Consumer and Industrials Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Convertible Arbitrage Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Credit Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Energy Horizons Fund GP, LLC*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Alpha Fund I GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Index Fund U.S. Equity Series GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint European Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Services Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Services Fund (Insurance), LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Fixed Income Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Global Emerging Markets Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Greater China Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Centennial Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Fund (Insurance), LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 11 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Long Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Small/Mid Cap Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint JEMN GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Leveraged Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management (Hong Kong), Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management (UK) LLP   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Management Services, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management Services 2, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint North American Hedged Value Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Quantitative Equity Strategies Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Quantitative Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Quantitative Macro Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint RCL Equity Long/Short Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Relative Value Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) No 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Universal GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Utility and Energy Fund (Insurance), LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Utility and Energy Fund GP, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Value Discovery Fund (Insurance), LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Volatility Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Stadia Capital GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Kasko LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    North European Funding LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lion LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Beta Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cooper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gamma Investments   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerrards Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Energy Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sandpiper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sand Lake Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Starling Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swallow Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Leopard Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lynx Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Puma JV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Tiger Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Oncilla LLC*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Conchito I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esox LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Guannaco I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mombacho I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XVI, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XXIII, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XXII, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Georgia Tax Credit Fund III, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH MHP II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH SLP Operating LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH Special General Partner II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Paquia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 12 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    Viento VIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing II Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG INT LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Taishan Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vikuna LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 1A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 2A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 3A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 4A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 5A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 6A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vikuna I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing III Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool SLP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Real Estate Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Real Estate Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Real Estate Mezzanine Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Revel EFS LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    D Z Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Structured Asset Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Synfuels, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Rosebank LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Douglasdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bondi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Melville LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Dainfern LLC*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenside LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Houghton LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sandhurst Partnership *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Sandhurst FX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Prosen Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Toolio Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Technology Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSAM Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Asset Management   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Exchange Corp.   
      
  California   
 
    Van Kampen Funds Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investor Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSBF Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSCI Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Barra, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Barra International Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BarraConsult Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Barra International (Australia) Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Investment Performance Objects Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Barra Japan Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Barra Ventures, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Barra Holding Company Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Barra POSIT, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Financial Engineering Associates, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    M   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital International Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital International S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital International Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital International Singapore Pte Limited   
      
  Singapore   
 
    MSCP III Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Proprietary Trading Co. (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSD Community Development Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Capital Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Capital Trust I   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Carnoustie LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bembridge Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sandown Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Gleneagles Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Marchmont Capital, Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW CPIV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 13 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    MSDW Credit Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Products Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW EFS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Emerging Equity, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Formosa Holdings II (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Asia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 6 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 7 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 8 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Europe LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments North America LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 9 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 10 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 12 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSPI Hong Kong I Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrokerTec Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Eaux Vives Water Bottling Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bahamas Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW International Employee Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Nederland B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Oak, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple JV, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sycamore II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elder, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Birch (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Offshore Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eemian Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Aral Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Deshka LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barnard LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chandra LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Karluk LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Keck LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mayall LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Proprietary Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedging Co. Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSDW Derivative Products (Portugal), Unipessoal Lta   
      
  Portugal   
 
    MSDW Equity Finance Services I (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Equity Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Offshore Equity Services (Korea) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW OIP Investors, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW PE/VC Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW-Pioneer GP, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW-Pioneer LP, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Private Equity, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-A Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-B Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-C Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Strategic Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Synfuels II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Synfuels III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Venture Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW VP IV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF Manager SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSGEM Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSIT Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SL Partners MD Side Fund, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSPEA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Guaranty, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine-GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 14 of 15 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       November 30, 2007       

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
    MSREF IV, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International Funding, L.P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-GP, L.L.C   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Opportunities Fund - GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-LP, L.L.C   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS SP Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002 Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002 Fund, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSYS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Papi LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pettingell LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Holdings III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pierpont Power, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Pinol I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence DE Funding Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence DE Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence International Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence Valley Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence DE Holdings Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Reynolds Securities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Shuksan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Holdings Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Littlehill Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eder S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Serratus LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Strategic Investments I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Strategic (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Strategic Investments II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Toole Power, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS PA Gaming Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura Holdings NJ, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Gaming Opportunities LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura AC LLC   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Zephyr (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   

*  
  Minority voting interest is held by a non-affiliate.           
    Page 15 of 15 Pages    

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 16
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Exhibit 23.1              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements (as amended) of Morgan Stanley (the
 Company ) of our reports dated January 28, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Morgan Stanley and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting (which reports on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule express an unqualified opinion and include an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2005, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  and, effective December 1, 2005, the change in accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to retirement-eligible employees and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2006,
concerning the application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in the Current Year Financial Statements  and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal
2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  and, an explanatory paragraph, in fiscal 2007, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),  appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007:
           Filed on Form S-3:      Registration Statement No. 33-57202      Registration Statement No. 33-60734      Registration Statement No. 33-89748      Registration Statement No. 33-92172      Registration Statement No. 333-07947      Registration Statement No. 333-27881      Registration Statement No. 333-27893      Registration Statement No. 333-27919      Registration Statement No. 333-46403      Registration Statement No. 333-46935      Registration Statement No. 333-76111      Registration Statement No. 333-75289      Registration Statement No. 333-34392      Registration Statement No. 333-47576      Registration Statement No. 333-83616      Registration Statement No. 333-106789      Registration Statement No. 333-117752      Registration Statement No. 333-129243      Registration Statement No. 333-131266            Filed on Form S-4:      Registration Statement No. 333-25003
           Filed on Form S-8:      Registration Statement No. 33-63024      Registration Statement No. 33-63026      Registration Statement No. 33-78038      Registration Statement No. 33-79516      Registration Statement No. 33-82240      Registration Statement No. 33-82242      Registration Statement No. 33-82244      Registration Statement No. 333-04212      Registration Statement No. 333-28141      Registration Statement No. 333-28263      Registration Statement No. 333-62869      Registration Statement No. 333-78081      Registration Statement No. 333-95303      Registration Statement No. 333-85148      Registration Statement No. 333-85150      Registration Statement No. 333-108223      Registration Statement No. 333-142874      Registration Statement No. 333-146954            /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP            New York, New York      January 28, 2008

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 17
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1       Certification      I, John J. Mack, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: January 28, 2008       

/s/    J OHN  J. M ACK            
 
   John J. Mack    
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 18
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2       Certification      I, Colm Kelleher, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: January 28, 2008       

/s/    C OLM  K ELLEHER            
 
   Colm Kelleher    
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 19
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John J. Mack, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        

/s/    J OHN  J. M ACK            
 
   John J. Mack    
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Dated: January 28, 2008   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 20
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Colm Kelleher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        

/s/    C OLM  K ELLEHER            
 
   Colm Kelleher    
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
   Dated: January 28, 2008   

</EX-32.2>

