<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090129_10-K_edgar_data_895421_0001193125-09-013429_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4518064</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1019088</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>213930</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2709294</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>240</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-013429.hdr.sgml : 20090129
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090128215454
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-013429
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090129
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090128

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		09552718

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-761-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980326

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LMk7jO6VIu7AzUlAjqdUOW9C6cnmbmFPKq/x5vIqbtwFeRnG4FdeEd/ORcWJukoO
 gjvRp8RRXjXwepdGXpON9g==

 0001193125-09-013429.txt : 20090129

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

         UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549      FORM 10-K      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
      For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008       Commission File Number 1-11758     

      (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)         
 
    Indicate by check mark if Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
YES     NO          Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark
whether Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated
filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large Accelerated Filer       
      
  Accelerated Filer       
 
    Non-Accelerated Filer         
      
  Smaller reporting company       
 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   

Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES     NO          As of May 31, 2008, the aggregate market value of the common stock of
Registrant held by non-affiliates of Registrant was approximately $48,765,826,243. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.      As of December 31, 2008, there were 1,074,497,565 shares of Registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.       Documents Incorporated By Reference:  Portions of Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K       for
the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008          

Table of Contents  

Page   

Part I     

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  1   

Overview    
      
  1   

Available Information    
      
  1   

Recent Business Developments    
      
  2   

Business Segments    
      
  2   

Institutional Securities    
      
  3   

Global Wealth Management Group    
      
  5   

Asset Management    
      
  6   

Research    
      
  7   

Competition    
      
  7   

Supervision and Regulation    
      
  8   

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley    
      
  16   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  17   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  26   
 
    Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  27   
 
    Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  28   
 
    Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  31   

Part II    

Item 5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

32   
 
    Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  34   
 
    Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  36   

Introduction    
      
  36   

Executive Summary    
      
  38   

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations    
      
  45   

Capital-Related Transactions     
      
  47   

Business Segments    
      
  48   

Other Matters    
      
  63   

Critical Accounting Policies    
      
  70   

Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      
  74   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  88   
 
    Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  106   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  106   

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
      
  107   

Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  109   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
      
  110   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  111   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity    
      
  112   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  113   

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)    
      
  189   
 
    Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  191   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  191   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  193   
       
   i     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Page   

Part III    

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  194   
 
    Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  194   
 
    Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
       195    
 
    Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  196   
 
    Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  196   

Part IV    

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  197   

Signatures    
      
  S-1   

Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  F-1   

Exhibit Index    
      
  E-1   
       
   ii     

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements             We have included or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or
other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only
Morgan Stanley s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.            The nature of Morgan Stanley s business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and uncertainties involved
in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements and it is possible that our actual results may differ from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without limitation):         

the effect of political and economic conditions and geopolitical events;            

the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential)
lending;            

the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices;            

the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to Morgan Stanley s unsecured short-term and long-term debt;

investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;            

our reputation;            

the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;          

the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, legal actions and technological changes and events in the U.S. and worldwide; and

other risks and uncertainties detailed under  Competition  and  Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I,
Item 1A, and elsewhere throughout this report.               Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Morgan Stanley undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking
statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further
disclosures Morgan Stanley may make in future filings of its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future press releases or other public statements.   
     
   iii     

Table of Contents  

      Part I                Item 1.     Business.                Overview.             Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and
affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the
State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in
London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley had 46,964 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley,  the  Company, 
 we,   us  and  our  mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.            On September 21, 2008, Morgan Stanley obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ) to become a bank holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned
indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah), from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) authorized Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) to commence
business as a national bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrent with this conversion, Morgan Stanley became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). For more
information about Morgan Stanley s transition into a financial holding company, see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company  herein.            Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the fiscal years ended
November 30, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in Part II, Item 8.   
           Available Information.             Morgan Stanley files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file
electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC s internet site,  www.sec.gov .            Morgan Stanley s internet site is  www.morganstanley.com . You can access Morgan Stanley s Investor Relations webpage at
 www.morganstanley.com/about/ir . Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or
greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.            Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley s corporate governance at  www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance . Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate
Governance webpage:         

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;            

Amended and Restated Bylaws;            
   1     

Table of Contents  

Charters for our Audit Committee; Internal Audit Subcommittee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; and Nominating and Governance
Committee;            

Corporate Governance Policies;            

Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;            

Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;          

Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;            

Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;            

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;            

Code of Conduct; and            

Integrity Hotline.               Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial
Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock
Exchange LLC ( NYSE ) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan
Stanley s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.               Recent Business Developments   .                 Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Joint Venture.             On January 13, 2009, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi s Smith Barney in the U.S.,
Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. Morgan Stanley will own 51%, and Citi will own 49% of the joint venture, after the contribution of the respective businesses to the
joint venture and Morgan Stanley s payment of $2.7 billion to Citi. Morgan Stanley will appoint four directors to the joint venture s board and Citi will appoint two directors. After year three, Morgan Stanley and Citi will have various
purchase and sales rights for the joint venture. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2009 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.               Business Segments.             Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market
positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments follows.              Institutional Securities   includes capital raising; financial advisory services,
including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign
exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; and investment activities.              Global Wealth Management Group   provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products;
credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.              Asset Management   provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and
funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment
activities.         
   2     

Table of Contents  

      Institutional Securities.             Morgan Stanley provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients
globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated ( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley
Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.             Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.               Financial Advisory Services.      Morgan Stanley provides
corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense strategies, joint ventures, privatizations, recapitalizations, spin-offs, corporate
restructurings, shareholder relations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management
strategies and financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.              Capital Raising.      Morgan Stanley manages and participates
in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American
Depositary Receipts ( ADRs ). Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities
and commercial paper and other short-term securities.              Corporate
Lending.      Morgan Stanley provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries (including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.). These loans and commitments have
varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan
Stanley   *   . The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.             Sales and Trading Activities.             Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter ( OTC ) markets
around the world. Morgan Stanley s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities include Equity Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities; and Clients and Services.              Equity Trading.      Morgan Stanley acts as principal
(including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.            Morgan Stanley s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover
equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a principal market in
equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors, including principal-protected securities.              Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies.      Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related products globally,
including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit,
currency and other fixed income linked notes, and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related       

*   
  Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in  Sales and Trading Activities.            
   3     

Table of Contents  

and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money market and other
short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. Federal Government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley is also a primary dealer or market maker
of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.            Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions globally in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment
grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities
and real estate loan products.            Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes
long and short proprietary positions in major foreign currencies, such as the Japanese yen, euro, British pound, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, as well as in emerging markets currencies. Morgan Stanley trades these currencies on a principal basis
in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.            Through the use of
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, Morgan Stanley acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for
commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.            Morgan Stanley advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in
their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley structures debt securities and derivatives with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can
restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.              Commodities.      Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and
precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures
and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an
electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns six electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.            Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns an interest in the Heidmar Group of
companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.              Clients and Services.      Morgan Stanley provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody,
financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.             Other Activities.               Benchmark Indices and Risk Management
Analytics.      As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley s subsidiary, MSCI Inc. ( MSCI      ), calculates and distributes over 100,000
international and U.S. equity benchmark indices (including the MSCI World and EAFE      Indices) covering 70 countries, and has a historical database spanning over 35 years that includes
fundamental and valuation data on thousands of equity securities in developed and emerging market countries. MSCI s subsidiary, Barra, Inc., is a leading provider of risk analytic  
       
   4     

Table of Contents  

tools and services to investors to help them analyze, measure and manage portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. Morgan Stanley sold a minority interest in
MSCI in an initial public offering on November 15, 2007 and sold additional MSCI shares in two secondary offerings in fiscal 2008. As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley owned approximately 28 million shares of MSCI s class B
common stock, representing approximately 66% of the combined voting power of all classes of MSCI s voting stock.              Investments.      Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or principal investing
activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are investments and capital commitments provided to public and private
companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley. These principal investment activities are conducted within the investment banking and sales and trading areas in Institutional
Securities and Asset Management.            Morgan Stanley sponsors and manages
investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also  Asset
Management.              Operations and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process
and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset
servicing. This is done for proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in
markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.               Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group provides comprehensive financial
services to clients through a network of approximately 8,400 global representatives in approximately 500 locations globally, including over 450 U.S. locations at fiscal year end. As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley had $546 billion in
client assets.             Clients.             Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium
size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. In the U.S., products and services are delivered through three principal channels. Specialized private wealth management investment
representative teams located in dedicated offices provide sophisticated investment solutions and services for ultra high net worth individuals, families and foundations. Financial advisors located in branches across the U.S. provide solutions
designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs for ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the
U.S., Morgan Stanley offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.             Products and Services.             Morgan
Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including Morgan Stanley s products and services, and products and services from third party providers, such as insurance
companies and mutual fund families. Morgan Stanley offers brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual
funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset  
       
   5     

Table of Contents  

allocation programs. Morgan Stanley also offers financial and wealth planning services, including education savings programs, as well as annuity and other
insurance products.            In
addition, Morgan Stanley offers several cash management services, including cash sweeps, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products, including securities based lending and a mortgage referral program, which
provides residential mortgages originated through Morgan Stanley s affiliated entities. Morgan Stanley s BusinesScape   SM    program offers
cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium businesses in the U.S.  Morgan Stanley provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to
corporate executives and businesses. Morgan Stanley also offers trust and fiduciary services to individual and corporate clients.            Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients a variety of ways to establish a
relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. The Active Assets Account     
offers clients brokerage and cash management services in one account. Clients can also choose a fee-based, separately managed account managed by affiliated or unaffiliated professional asset managers.             Operations and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process
and technology platform that supports the activities of Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group from trade capture through clearance, settlement and custody, including asset servicing as well as bank deposit and loan processing through
Morgan Stanley s affiliated banks. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.
              Asset Management.             Morgan Stanley Investment Management is one of the largest global asset management
organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers individual and institutional clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Morgan Stanley Investment Management had
$399 billion of assets under management or supervision as of November 30, 2008. Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands. Portfolio managers located in the U.S.,
Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets. Morgan
Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.            Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and merchant banking products for
institutional investors and high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha overlays, including FrontPoint Partners LLC,
a leading provider of absolute return strategies with approximately $8.4 billion in assets under management, and minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners and Avenue Capital Group. Morgan Stanley s Merchant Banking Division, formed in 2007,
includes Morgan Stanley s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment and merchant banking
funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.             Institutional Investors.             Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including pension plans, corporations, private funds, non-profit
organizations, foundations, endowments, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles. Morgan
Stanley Investment  
       
   6     

Table of Contents  

Management also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering
the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.             Individual Investors.             Morgan Stanley offers open-end and
alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are
available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells Van Kampen funds
through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed through
affiliated broker-dealers.             Operations and Information Technology.
            Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments
provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services,
on behalf of institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated
third parties.               Research.             In December 2008, Morgan Stanley announced that its global research department
( Research ), formerly part of its Institutional Securities business segment, would be coordinated globally across all of Morgan Stanley s businesses. Research consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in
equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide
trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign
currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are disseminated to investors through third party
distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley s sales forces.               Competition.             All aspects of Morgan Stanley s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business
segments. Morgan Stanley s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan Stanley s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its
ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies
and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial
services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. In fiscal 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial
government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government. These developments could result in Morgan Stanley s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a
broader range of products and services and geographic diversity.         
   7     

Table of Contents  

    Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan Stanley s competitive position depends on innovation, execution capability and
relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product basis.            Morgan Stanley s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally
dependent on Morgan Stanley s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate
clients may request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.            It is possible that competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized,
or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive
position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other
infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to remain competitive.            Morgan Stanley has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically
on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience
competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.             Asset Management.             Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including Morgan Stanley s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products
relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley s alternative
investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.       
        Supervision and Regulation.             Most aspects of Morgan Stanley s business are subject to stringent regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S.
government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Aspects of Morgan Stanley s public disclosure, corporate governance principles, internal control environment and the roles of auditors and counsel are subject to the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the NYSE.            In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify
the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world.            The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including
a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S., are possible in the months or years ahead. Any such action could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a global financial
institution, to the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of its business, Morgan Stanley faces complexity and additional costs in its compliance efforts.         
   8     

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Developments.          
  The year 2008 saw an unprecedented number of government initiatives both in the U.S. and abroad designed to respond to the stresses experienced in global financial
markets.            U.S. regulatory agencies including primarily the U.S. Department of
Treasury (the  U.S. Treasury ), the Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York have taken a number of steps to enhance the liquidity support available to financial
institutions such as Morgan Stanley and certain of its subsidiaries. These steps have included (i) expanding the types and quality of assets that can be used as collateral for borrowings by primary dealers from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York under the primary dealer credit facility, (ii) extending the term for which the Fed will lend the U.S. Treasury securities to primary dealers under its term securities lending facility, (iii) adopting temporary exceptions to the
Federal Reserve Act limitations on transactions between insured depository institutions, such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., and their affiliates to permit them to provide liquidity to their affiliates for assets typically funded in the tri-party
repo market, and (iv) authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to extend credit to the U.S.- and London-based broker-dealer subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley and those of two other institutions against all types of collateral that may be
pledged at the primary dealer credit facility. Furthermore, the FDIC agreed to temporarily guarantee certain senior unsecured debt of all FDIC-insured institutions, their U.S. holding companies, and of certain other affiliates accepted into the
program, and to temporarily guarantee deposits in certain transaction accounts of FDIC-insured institutions or branches. Morgan Stanley and its FDIC-insured depository institutions are participating in both FDIC programs and will incur fees assessed
in connection with such programs (see also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding Management Policies Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program  in Part II, Item 7 herein). On October 27, 2008, the Fed s Commercial Paper Funding Facility, a facility designed to provide a liquidity backstop to U.S. issuers of commercial paper, became operational.            On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially
introduced as the Troubled Asset Relief Program or  TARP ) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced its intention to inject capital into nine large U.S. financial institutions, including Morgan Stanley, under the
TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ), and since has injected capital into many other financial institutions. Morgan Stanley was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP, and on October 26, 2008
entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, Morgan Stanley sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, preferred stock and warrants.
Under the terms of the CPP, Morgan Stanley is prohibited from increasing dividends on its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its common stock, without the U.S. Treasury s consent. Furthermore, as
long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Morgan Stanley s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid
dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital
Management Policies  in Part II, Item 7 herein.            On October 14,
2008, the SEC published final rules, effective as of October 17, 2008, under the Exchange Act adopting, among other changes, a temporary rule, set to expire on July 31, 2009, which contains a firm delivery requirement for long and short
sales, and the  naked  short selling anti-fraud rule.            In Europe,
governments and regulatory agencies have also implemented several initiatives to respond to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets, including capital injections to certain financial institutions and a range of economic and fiscal
stimuli. Most regulators in the European Union introduced temporary or permanent rules to further regulate short selling and enhance disclosure of short sales. In the United Kingdom, as well as pursuing an increased focus on the capital and
liquidity strength of regulated firms, the Financial Services  
       
   9     

Table of Contents  

Authority wrote to chief executive officers of financial services firms expressing its intention to focus on management structures and the culture of
supervisory responsibility within firms, and setting out its views on best practice in the area of position valuation and risk control following a number of mis-marking incidents across the industry.             Financial Holding Company.             On September 21, 2008, Morgan Stanley obtained approval from the Fed to become a bank
holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank, from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the OCC authorized Morgan Stanley Bank to commence business as a national
bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrently with this conversion, Morgan Stanley became a financial holding company under the BHC Act.              Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.      Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. is an FDIC-insured national bank and, as such, is subject to the supervision and
regulation by the OCC and, in certain matters, by the Fed and FDIC. The activities of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., as a consumer lender, are also subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Truth in Lending, Equal
Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on the making, enforcement and collection of consumer loans and on the
types of disclosures that need to be made in connection with such loans.              Other Banking Institutions.      Morgan Stanley Trust is a wholly owned subsidiary that conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other activities. It is an FDIC-insured federal savings bank whose
activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Morgan Stanley Trust is also a registered transfer agent subject to regulation and examination by the SEC.            Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a non-depository
national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary activities, primarily personal trust services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured and
is not considered a  bank  for purposes of the BHC Act.              Scope
of Permitted Activities.      As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is able to engage in any activity that is financial in nature, incidental to a financial activity or complementary to a financial activity. Unless
otherwise required by the Fed, Morgan Stanley is permitted to commence any new financial activity, or acquire a company engaged in any financial activity, as long as it provides after the fact notice of such new activity or investment to
the Fed. However, Morgan Stanley must obtain the prior approval of the Fed before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution or bank holding company or commencing any activity that is complementary
to a financial activity.            Morgan Stanley believes that most of the activities
it conducted before becoming a financial holding company remain permissible. In addition, the BHC Act gives Morgan Stanley two years to conform its existing nonfinancial activities and investments to the requirements of the BHC Act with the
possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years. The BHC Act also grandfathers any  activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,  provided
that Morgan Stanley conducted any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 and provided that certain other conditions that are within Morgan Stanley s reasonable control are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to
determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness.            It is possible that certain of Morgan Stanley s existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible financial activities, or incidental or complementary to such
activities or otherwise grandfathered. If so, Morgan Stanley will  
       
   10     

Table of Contents  

be required to divest them before the end of the grace period discussed above. Morgan Stanley does not believe that any such required divestment will have a
material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.              Consolidated Supervision.      As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed. This means that Morgan Stanley is, among
other things, subject to the Fed s risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements for bank holding companies. The Fed has the authority to conduct on-site examinations of Morgan Stanley and any of its
affiliates, subject to coordinating with any state or federal functional regulator of any particular affiliate.            In addition to the Fed s consolidated supervision, certain of Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries are regulated directly by other regulators based upon the activities
of those subsidiaries. Except for Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., which has become subject to the supervision and regulation of the OCC upon becoming a national bank, the functional regulation of Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries by other state and
federal regulators has not changed. Morgan Stanley, by participating in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, has become subject to additional oversight by the FDIC, limited to compliance with the terms of that program (see
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Funding Management Policies Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  in Part II, Item 7 herein).
Participation in the program does not change the Fed s role as Morgan Stanley s consolidated supervisor.            In order to maintain Morgan Stanley s status as a financial holding company, its depository institution subsidiaries must remain well capitalized and well managed.
Under regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the
financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, as a last resort if the deficiencies persist, the Fed may order a financial holding
company to cease the conduct of or to divest those businesses engaged in activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution
controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Fed must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than
those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.              Capital Standards.      Federal banking regulators have adopted risk based capital and leverage guidelines that require Morgan Stanley s capital to assets ratios to meet certain minimum
standards.            The denominator or asset portion of the risk based capital
ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off balance sheet financial instruments into four weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the
guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking
organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to risk weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% in order to qualify as well capitalized and for their holding company parent to be
able to qualify as a financial holding company.            The federal banking regulators
also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total book assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred
tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for each fiscal quarter. The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered  strong  under Fed guidelines or which have
implemented the Fed s risk based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.            The Fed generally requires Morgan Stanley and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of these
minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.         
   11     

Table of Contents  

   U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Accord ( Basel II ) into the existing
risk based capital requirements. After a transitional period, core financial institutions, including Morgan Stanley, are required to implement advanced measurement techniques by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive
capital requirements. Prior to becoming a financial holding company, as part of its status until September 2008 as a consolidated supervised entity subject to the group wide supervision and examination by the SEC, Morgan Stanley calculated its
minimum capital requirements in accordance with Basel II as implemented by the SEC. Morgan Stanley s significant European regulated entities implemented Basel II Capital Standards on January 1, 2008. For March 31, 2009 and future
dates, the Company expects to calculate its capital ratios and risk weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework described in the
 International Convergence of Capital Measurement,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I.            Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit Morgan Stanley s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements
may limit Morgan Stanley s ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital
requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels.              Dividends   .     In addition to certain dividend
restrictions that apply by law to certain of Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries, as described below, the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including
Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and other depository institution subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the
banking organization. It is Fed policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization s
expected future needs and financial condition. It is also Fed policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under the terms of
the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, Morgan Stanley is prohibited from increasing dividends on its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its common stock,
without the U.S. Treasury s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as
the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Morgan Stanley s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid
dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions (see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital
Management Policies  in Part II, Item 7 herein).              Prompt
Corrective Action   .     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by
their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take  prompt corrective action  with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy
standards. Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the prompt corrective action rules generally depend upon an institution s classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to insured
banks and thrifts such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. or Morgan Stanley Trust, and not to bank holding companies such as Morgan Stanley. However, subject to limitations, the Fed is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level,
based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance
of the undercapitalized subsidiary s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee.       
  
   12     

Table of Contents  

     Transactions with Affiliates   .     Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley
Trust are both subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and on certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits
on the total amount of credit exposure that they may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms.              FDIC Regulation.      An FDIC insured depository
institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of a commonly controlled insured depository institution.            If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events,
the FDIC has the power: to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor; to enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms notwithstanding any clause that
purports to accelerate or terminate the contracts; or to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, subject to certain standards. The above provisions would be applicable to Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.
and Morgan Stanley Trust.            As FDIC-insured depository institutions, Morgan
Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust are exposed to changes in the cost of such insurance. On January 1, 2009, the FDIC increased the Deposit Insurance Fund assessment rates as part of the FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund restoration
plan and has proposed to make, beginning in the second quarter of 2009, further risk-based changes to its deposit insurance assessment system. In addition, by participating in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, Morgan Stanley
Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust have temporarily become subject to an additional assessment on deposits in excess of $250,000 in certain transaction accounts.             Anti-Money Laundering.            Morgan Stanley s Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
(the  PATRIOT Act ) imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, broker-dealers and mutual funds to identify and verify
customers that maintain accounts. The PATRIOT Act also mandates that certain types of financial institutions monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. An institution subject to the PATRIOT Act
also must designate an AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws and regulations
similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has
also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control.             Protection of Client Information.            Many aspects of Morgan Stanley s business are subject to legal requirements concerning
the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data Protection Directive in the EU and
various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures in response to such requirements. Morgan
Stanley has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.             Research.            Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions and are proposed or under consideration in other
jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement  
       
   13     

Table of Contents  

with U.S. Federal and state regulators (to which Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and
procedures.             Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.
              Broker-Dealer Regulation.      Morgan
Stanley s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, MS Co., is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and is a member of various self-regulatory
organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business,
including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers  funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives
and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer s actions could result in censures, fines, the
issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state
securities administrators.            Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by
the Fed s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin
requirements imposed under the FINRA rules. In many cases, Morgan Stanley s broker-dealer subsidiaries  margin policies are more stringent than these rules.            As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including MS Co., are subject to the SEC s net capital
rule and the net capital requirements of various securities exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities either have imposed or are proposing rules relating to capital requirements applicable to Morgan Stanley s
non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules, which specify minimum capital requirements, are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net assets be kept in relatively
liquid form. See also  Consolidated Supervision  and  Capital Standards  above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations  assets.
           Compliance with the capital requirements may limit Morgan Stanley s
operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or
purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against
capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its
broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules, either in the form of cash or subordinated loans made in accordance with the requirements of the SEC s net capital rule.            MS Co. is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ),
which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers  securities accounts held by a broker-dealer up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, subject
to a limitation of $100,000 for claims for cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, MS Co. has purchased additional protection for the benefit of its customers from Lloyd s of London, in addition to its existing supplemental
coverage from Customer Asset Protection Company ( CAPCO ). The CAPCO coverage will expire on February 16, 2009, after which Lloyd s of London will be the sole excess SIPC coverage provider.              Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities.      The
commodities activities in the Institutional Securities business segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified
scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those
engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.         
   14     

Table of Contents  

   Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan Stanley s commodities activities are also subject to
environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or
previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.              Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities.      As a registered futures commission merchant, MS Co. is subject to the net capital requirements of, and its activities are regulated by,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and various commodity exchanges. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators. Morgan Stanley s
futures and options-on-futures businesses are also regulated by the National Futures Association (the  NFA ), a registered futures association, of which MS Co. and certain of its affiliates are members. Violations of the rules of the
CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.              Non-U.S. Regulation.      Morgan Stanley s businesses
are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley
maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various
government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London
Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe regulate Morgan Stanley s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche B rse AG and the Bundesanstalt f r Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities
in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and
futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Exchanges
and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.       
      Asset Management.             Many of the subsidiaries engaged in Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC, and, in certain states, some
employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit
the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event
that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified
periods of time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.            Morgan Stanley s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S.   For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates
Morgan Stanley s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley s business in Singapore.            For a discussion of certain risks relating to Morgan Stanley s regulatory environment,
see  Risk Factors  herein.        
   15     

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.             The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of January 28,
2009 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.             John J. Mack (64).     Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (since June 2005). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management
(June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan
Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).             Walid Chammah
(54).     Co-President (since December 2007). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since July 2007). Head of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets
(July 2002 to August 2005).             James Gorman
(50).     Co-President (since December 2007) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008). Head of Corporate
Acquisitions Strategy   Research at Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).   Director
of MSCI Inc. (since November 2007).             Colm Kelleher
(51).     Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to
February 2006). Head of Fixed Income Sales Europe (December 2000 to May 2004).             Gary G. Lynch (58).     Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive Vice Chairman (July 2004
to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July 2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk   Wardwell (September
1989 to October 2001).             Thomas R. Nides
(47).     Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (since September 2005). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chief Administrative
Officer of Credit Suisse First Boston (June 2001 to June 2004).             Kenneth M.
deRegt (53).     Chief Risk Officer (since February 2008). Managing Director of Aetos Capital, LLC, an investment management firm (December 2002 to February 2008). Director of MSCI Inc. (since November 2007).             Linda H. Riefler (48).     Global Head of Research (since December
2008). Chief Talent Officer (June 2006 to November 2008). Head of Client Services (October 2005 to June 2006). Managing Director of MS Co. (since December 1998). Director of MSCI Inc. (since October 2005).         
   16     

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.    Risk Factors.              Liquidity Risk.             Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that Morgan Stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the
capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of Morgan Stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may
threaten its viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources  in Part II, Item 7 herein.              Liquidity is essential
to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital
markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding.
In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded
or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity,
among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable
to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.             Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.              The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term
and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix.   
        Our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues,
particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other
agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade.              We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.
             We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our
subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In
particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers
altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to
limitations on our ability to pay dividends. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and
our bank holding company subsidiaries.         
   17     

Table of Contents  

     Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury s
equity investment in us.              Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as
any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury s
consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the
U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to
certain limited exceptions. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital Management Policies  in Part II, Item 7 herein.
             Our liquidity and financial condition have been and could continue to be
adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.              Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international
markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in the past six months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have
been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional
investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain
counterparties and customers to do business with us.            Market Risk.
            Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more
market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a
position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see  Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.       
       Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.              The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the
past several years, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. Results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be,
materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and
interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a
combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an impact on our
ability to achieve our strategic objectives.            The results of our Institutional
Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above
that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of
global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the  
       
   18     

Table of Contents  

realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor
participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity
could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset
Management business segment.              We may experience further writedowns of our
financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions   .                 Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent
valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will
depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an
adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.              Holding
large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.              Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial
amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region.              Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility
accompanied by reduced liquidity.              Financial markets are susceptible
to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they
would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades.
Morgan Stanley s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and Morgan Stanley could realize significant
losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy.              We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector.              We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment
vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by
commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector.       
  
   19     

Table of Contents  

    Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. For more
information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see  Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.              We incur significant  single-name  credit risk exposure through the Institutional
Securities business segment. This risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various
credit arrangements. Corporate clients seek loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. We incur  individual consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment
through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities.            Recent market conditions, including decreased liquidity and pricing transparency along with increased market volatility, will negatively impact our  single-name  credit risk exposure. In addition, as a
clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are
difficult to detect or foresee.              Defaults by another larger financial
institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.              The
commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one
institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as  systemic risk  and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing
agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Morgan Stanley.         
   Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from external
events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and
trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal Risk.  For more information on how we monitor
and manage operational risk, see  Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              We are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses.              Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In
general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal
systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions.            We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of
a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party s systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage
to our reputation.         
   20     

Table of Contents  

   Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a
disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services
used by Morgan Stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.             Legal Risk.             Legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance
with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. For more information on how we
monitor and manage legal risk, see  Risk Management Legal Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are and will become subject as a result of
becoming a financial holding company.              On September 21, 2008, we
obtained approval from the Fed to become a bank holding company. On September 23, 2008, we became a financial holding company concurrent with the conversion of Morgan Stanley Bank into a national bank. We have a statutory grace period of two
years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies. The BHC Act also
grandfathers commodities activities provided that certain conditions are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk
to safety and soundness. The Fed has previously determined that a wide range of commodities activities are either financial in nature or complementary to a financial activity. Although we expect to be able to continue to engage in most of the
activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable regulations. If so, we will be required to divest them before the end of the grace
period discussed above. We do not believe that any such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.            As a result of becoming a financial holding company, we will be restricted in engaging in new activities that are not financial in nature.
This may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in. In addition, in order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, our depository institution subsidiaries, such as Morgan Stanley Bank,
N.A., must remain well capitalized and well managed. Under regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by us no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or
managerial requirements on us and place limitations on our ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. If any depository institution controlled by us were to fail to maintain a satisfactory rating
under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Fed would be required to restrict our and our subsidiaries  ability to engage in additional activities to the range of activities permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding
companies, which would severely restrict our ability to conduct our business.            As a financial holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. The Fed generally requires us and our peer financial holding
companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of the minimum levels required by certain guidelines published by the federal banking regulators, depending upon general economic conditions and each financial
holding company s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit our operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements may limit our ability
to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss
or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present  
       
   21     

Table of Contents  

business levels. Further requirements, including certain dividend restrictions, have been imposed on us and other financial institutions participating in the
CPP (see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company Dividends  in Part I, Item 1 and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources Equity Capital Management Policies  in Part II, Item 7 herein).              Our business, financial condition and results of operations are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by new regulations or by changes in regulations or the application thereof in any of the
jurisdictions in which we operate.              The financial services industry is
heavily regulated. We are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited
from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.            In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services
industry. Most recently, governments in the U.S. and abroad have intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Steps undertaken in the U.S. include enhancing the liquidity support
available to financial institutions, including by establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, insuring deposits in certain transaction deposit accounts, and
injecting capital into financial institutions. Some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the
price of our common stock.            Proposals for legislation that could substantially
intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to
their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S. and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions, are possible in
the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in
the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we
operate, see  Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 herein.              The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.         
     We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in
connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of
damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.            We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies
regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these investigations and
proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies
and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action  
       
   22     

Table of Contents  

against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which
could seriously harm our business. For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3 herein.              Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.
             We are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory
authorities and bodies of the U.S. and other governments. For example, the actions of the Fed and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the
value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.             Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic
events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.              In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and
trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. In addition,
we own six electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe; TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and have an interest in the Heidmar
Group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other
governmental laws and regulations. For example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of
unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property
damage, and suspension of operations.            Although we have attempted to mitigate
our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency
response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover
liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events.            We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified
scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the
activities in which we are engaged. For example, the EU has increased its focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid
hydrocarbons trading. We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with
these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.         
   23     

Table of Contents  

     A failure to deal with conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses.
             As a global financial services firm that provides its products and
services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interests in the normal course of business. For example, potential
conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between Morgan Stanley and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and the Firm or a client on the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed
to address potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a
conflict can put our reputation at risk. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may
occur and could adversely affect our businesses.             Competitive Environment.
              We face strong competition from other financial services firms,
which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.              The financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, insurance
companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital
or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been
acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. In fiscal 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or
were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We may
experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see  Competition  in
Part I, Item 1 herein.              Our ability to retain and attract qualified
employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.              Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such
employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees,
or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.
           Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP described above, among other
things, we have agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior management. It is possible that the
U.S. Treasury may, as it is permitted to do, impose further requirements on us.              Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.              We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on
exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that we will experience competitive
pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.         
   24     

Table of Contents  

    International Risk.               We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely
impact our businesses in many ways.              We are subject to political,
economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive
governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may
be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market
but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.            Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital
and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could
adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.            The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could
lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.             Acquisition Risk.               We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances.              We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. To the extent we make acquisitions or enter into
combinations, joint ventures or strategic alliances, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls
and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or
reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint
venture. There is no assurance that our acquisitions or any business we acquire will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions,
there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.            In October 2008, Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. announced a global strategic alliance and have identified areas of potential collaboration for such alliance, including corporate and investment
banking, certain areas of retail banking and asset management, and lending activities such as corporate and project related loans. In January 2009, Morgan Stanley and Citi announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine Morgan
Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (see also  Recent Business
Developments  in Part I, Item 1 herein).         
   25     

Table of Contents  

    Risk Management.               Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all
types of risk.              We have devoted significant resources to develop our
risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or
against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures,
which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large
number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see  Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II,
Item 7A herein.               Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.             Morgan Stanley, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no
comments that remain unresolved that Morgan Stanley received not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this report relates that Morgan Stanley believes are material.         
   26     

Table of Contents  

      Item 2.    Properties.             Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries have offices, operations and data centers located around
the world. Morgan Stanley s properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. Morgan Stanley believes the facilities it owns or
occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. Our principal offices consist of the following properties:         

(A)  
  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by Morgan Stanley securities branch offices.     

(B)  
  Morgan Stanley holds the freehold interest in the land and building.     

(C)  
  Option to return half of the space from April 2010 and any amount of space up to the full space after April 2011; 6 months notice required.           
   27     

Table of Contents  

      Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.             In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, Morgan Stanley
has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the
actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are
bankrupt or in financial distress.            Morgan Stanley is also involved, from time
to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding Morgan Stanley s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain
of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            Morgan Stanley contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants
seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, Morgan Stanley cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how or if such matters will be
resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, Morgan Stanley believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel,
that the outcome of such pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of Morgan Stanley, although the outcome of such matters could be material to Morgan Stanley s operating results and cash
flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of Morgan Stanley s revenues or income for such period.             IPO Allocation Matters.             Beginning in March 2001, numerous purported class actions, now captioned  In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation , were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the
 SDNY ) against certain issuers of initial public offering ( IPO ) securities, certain individual officers of those issuers, Morgan Stanley and other underwriters of those IPOs, purportedly on behalf of purchasers of stock in the
IPOs or the aftermarket. These complaints allege that defendants required customers who wanted allocations of  hot  IPO securities to pay undisclosed and excessive underwriters  compensation in the form of increased brokerage
commissions and to buy shares of securities offered in the IPOs after the IPOs were completed at escalating price levels higher than the IPO price (a practice plaintiffs refer to as  laddering ), and claim violations of the federal
securities laws, including Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. Some of the complaints also allege that continuous  buy 
recommendations by the defendants  research analysts improperly increased or sustained the prices at which the securities traded after the IPOs. In February 2003, the underwriter defendants  joint motion to dismiss was denied, except
as to certain specified offerings. In December 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the  Second Circuit ) reversed the SDNY s grant of class certification, and ruled that these cases could not be certified for
class treatment. In August 2007, plaintiffs filed second consolidated amended class action complaints, which purport to amend the allegations in light of the Second Circuit s reversal of the SDNY s decision approving the cases to proceed
as class actions. On March 26, 2008, the underwriter defendants  joint motion to dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint was denied, except as to claims brought under Section 11 of the Securities Act by those plaintiffs who
sold securities for a price in excess of the initial offering price and by those plaintiffs who purchased outside the previously certified class period. On September 12, 2008, Morgan Stanley and other defendants reached an agreement in principle
with plaintiffs to settle this matter, subject to final agreement on documentation and court approval.            In October 2007, numerous derivative actions, purportedly brought on behalf of certain issuers of IPO securities, were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington (the  Western
District of  
       
   28     

Table of Contents  

Washington ) against Morgan Stanley and other underwriters of those IPOs. The actions seek to recover  short swing  profits allegedly
generated in violation of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss these actions, which motion is pending before the Western District of Washington.             Residential Mortgage-related Matters.               Regulatory and Governmental Matters.      Morgan Stanley is
responding to subpoenas and requests for information from certain regulatory and governmental entities concerning the origination, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related issues.
             Class Actions.      Beginning in March 2007,
Morgan Stanley was named as a defendant in several putative class action lawsuits brought under Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act related to its role as a member of the syndicates that underwrote offerings of securities and mortgage pass
through certificates for certain entities that have been exposed to subprime and other mortgage-related losses. These putative class actions include lawsuits related to: (i) New Century Financial Corp. ( New Century ), pending in the
United States District Court for the Central District of California (the  Central District of California  (ii) Countrywide Financial Corp. and its affiliates, one consolidated lawsuit is pending in the Central District of California
and two other lawsuits are pending in the Superior Court of the State of California in Los Angeles; (iii) Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc., pending in the SDNY; (iv) Wachovia Corporation, pending in the United States District Court for
the Superior Court of the State of California in Alameda County; (v) Washington Mutual, Inc. ( Washington Mutual ), pending in the Western District of Washington; (vi) Fifth Third Bancorp, pending in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio; (vii) Fannie Mae, pending in the SDNY and the District of New Jersey; (viii) Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( Lehman Brothers ), pending in the SDNY, the Eastern District of New York and
the United States District Courts for the Eastern and Western Districts of Arkansas; (ix) Citigroup, Inc., pending in the SDNY; (x) American International Group, Inc., pending in the SDNY; (xi) Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc pending in
the SDNY; and (xii) IndyMac Bank, F.S.B. ( IndyMac ), pending in the Superior Court of the State of California in Los Angeles. Morgan Stanley is contractually entitled to be indemnified in connection with these putative class actions by
the entities that offered the securities at issue, but four of these entities, New Century, Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual and IndyMac, have filed for bankruptcy and this may decrease or eliminate the value of the indemnities that Morgan Stanley
received from these four entities. On December 3, 2008, the court in the case related to New Century, which is styled  In Re New Century , denied the underwriter defendants  motion to dismiss the second amended consolidated class
action complaint. On December 8, 2008, the underwriter defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint in the case related to Washington Mutual, which is styled  In Re Washington Mutual, Inc. Securities
Litigation .            Beginning in December 2007, several purported class action
complaints were filed in the SDNY asserting claims on behalf of participants in Morgan Stanley s 401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against Morgan Stanley and other parties, including certain present and former directors and
officers, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ). The complaints relate in large part to subprime-related losses, and allege, among other things, that Morgan Stanley s stock was not a prudent investment
and that risks associated with its stock and its financial condition were not adequately disclosed. On February 11, 2008, all of the pending actions asserting claims under ERISA related to Morgan Stanley s 401(k) and employee stock
ownership plan were consolidated in a single proceeding in the SDNY, which is styled  In re Morgan Stanley ERISA Litigation . On July 25, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint, which defendants have moved to dismiss. The
consolidated complaint in this action relates in large part to Morgan Stanley s subprime and other mortgage related losses, but also includes allegations regarding Morgan Stanley s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other
matters.            On February 12, 2008, a plaintiff filed a purported class
action, which was amended on November 24, 2008, naming Morgan Stanley and certain present and former senior executives as defendants and alleging claims for, among other things, violations of the securities laws related in large part to Morgan
Stanley s subprime related losses. The amended complaint, which is styled  Joel Stratte-McClure, et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al. , is pending in the Central District of California. Subject to certain exclusions, the amended complaint
purports to assert claims under the federal securities laws on behalf of a purported class of persons and entities who purchased  
       
   29     

Table of Contents  

shares of Morgan Stanley common stock during the period June 20, 2007 to December 19, 2007 and who suffered damages as a result of such purchases.
The allegations in the amended complaint relate in large part to Morgan Stanley s subprime and other mortgage related losses, but also include allegations regarding Morgan Stanley s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other
matters.            On December 2, 2008, a plaintiff filed a purported class action
against Morgan Stanley, certain present and former officers and other defendants asserting claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act related to alleged false and misleading statements in the registration statements and other offering
documents associated with fourteen trusts that issued mortgage pass through certificates backed by residential mortgage loans in 2006. The lawsuit, which is styled  Public Employees  Retirement System of Mississippi v. Morgan Stanley, et
al. , was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for Orange County. On December 31, 2008, the defendants removed the case to federal court in the Central District of California.              Shareholder Derivative Matter.      A shareholder derivative
lawsuit was filed in the SDNY during November 2007 asserting claims related in large part to losses caused by certain subprime-related trading positions and related matters. The complaint in that lawsuit, which is styled  Steve Staehr,
Derivatively on Behalf of Morgan Stanley v. John J. Mack, et al. , was served on Morgan Stanley on February 15, 2008. On July 18, 2008, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which defendants have moved to dismiss.              Other Matters.      Morgan Stanley, along with a number of
other financial institutions, has been named as a defendant in a lawsuit brought by the City of Cleveland, Ohio, alleging that defendants  activities in connection with securitizations of subprime loans created a  public nuisance  in
Cleveland. The lawsuit has been removed to United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio and the defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint.             Auction Rate Securities Matters.             On March 25, 2008, a putative class action complaint, which is styled  Miller v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated , was filed in the SDNY purportedly
on behalf of persons who acquired auction rate securities ( ARS ) from Morgan Stanley from March 25, 2003 through February 13, 2008 and who were allegedly damaged thereby. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Morgan
Stanley failed to disclose material facts with respect to ARS and thereby violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5. The complaint seeks damages, attorneys  fees, and rescission. On March 31, 2008, a similar
action ,  which is styled  Jamail v. Morgan Stanley, et al. , was filed in the same court seeking damages, attorneys  fees and equitable and/or injunctive relief. On May 28, 2008, a third putative class action, which is styled 
Bartholomew v. Morgan Stanley et al. , was filed in the SDNY purportedly on behalf of individuals who allegedly had their ARS  frozen  by Morgan Stanley and who have been damaged thereby. The complaint alleges, among other things, that
Morgan Stanley made misrepresentations and omissions with respect to ARS and breached a fiduciary duty to the putative class by failing to participate in auctions and asserts claims under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and state law. The
complaint seeks damages, disgorgement, attorneys  fees, and a declaration that Morgan Stanley s ARS transactions with the putative class members are void.            Morgan Stanley also received requests for documents and information from various government agencies regarding ARS and is cooperating with
the investigations. On August 13, 2008, Morgan Stanley reached an agreement in principle with the Office of the New York State Attorney General and the Office of the Illinois Secretary of State, Securities Department (on behalf of a task
force of other states under the auspices of the North American Securities Administrators Association) in connection with the proposed settlement of their investigations relating to the sale of ARS. Morgan Stanley agreed,
among other things to: (1) repurchase at par illiquid ARS that were purchased by certain retail clients prior to February 13, 2008; (2) pay certain retail clients that sold ARS below
par the difference between par and the price at which the clients sold the securities; (3) arbitrate, under special procedures, claims for consequential damages by certain retail clients; (4) refund refinancing fees to
certain municipal issuers of ARS; and (5) pay a total penalty of $35 million. A separate investigation of these matters by the SEC remains ongoing.         
   30     

Table of Contents  

   On August 27, 2008, a shareholder derivative complaint, which is styled  Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees Retirement System v. Mack, et al. , was filed in the SDNY. On September 12, 2008, a second complaint, which is styled  Thomas v. Mack, et al. , was filed in the SDNY. The complaints are
substantially similar and name as defendants the members of Morgan Stanley s Board of Directors as well as certain current and former officers. Morgan Stanley, on whose behalf the suits are purportedly brought, is named
as a nominal defendant in each action. The complaints raise claims of breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, and violation of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act related to
Morgan Stanley s sale of ARS over the period from June 20, 2007 to the present. Among other things, the complaints allege that, over the relevant period, Morgan Stanley s public filings and statements were materially false and
misleading in that they failed to disclose the illiquid nature of its ARS inventories and that Morgan Stanley s practices in the sale of ARS exposed it to significant liability for settlements and judgments. The complaints also
allege that during the relevant period certain defendants sold Morgan Stanley s stock while in possession of material non-public information. The complaints seek, among other things, unspecified compensatory damages, restitution from the
defendants with respect to compensation, benefits and profits obtained, and the institution of certain reforms to Morgan Stanley s internal control functions. On November 24, 2008, the SDNY ordered the consolidation of the two
actions.             Environmental Matters.             On October 29, 2008, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) sent
Morgan Stanley a proposed administrative settlement agreement to resolve certain violations of the U.S. environmental laws allegedly committed by Morgan Stanley during 2005. These alleged violations include: distribution of approximately
2.7 million gallons of reformulated gasoline that failed to comply with maximum benzene content limitations; failure to report volume and property information for each batch of gasoline blendstock imported and reformulated gasoline produced;
failure to conduct an annual attest engagement; and failure to provide product transfer documents for each transfer of reformulated gasoline and each batch of previously certified gasoline. The EPA has proposed a civil penalty of $599,000 to resolve
these matters. Morgan Stanley believes that the proposed penalty fails to adequately take into consideration certain mitigating factors and other information, and is continuing to communicate with the EPA regarding the resolution of this matter.

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.               There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30, 2008.         
   31     

Table of Contents  

      Part II          

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.               Morgan Stanley s common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol  MS.  As of
January 23, 2009, Morgan Stanley had approximately 94,565 holders of record; however, Morgan Stanley believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.            The table below sets forth, for each of the last eight fiscal quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of Morgan Stanley s
common stock as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets and the amount of any cash dividends declared per share of Morgan Stanley s common stock.         

(A)  
  As a result of its participation in the CPP, Morgan Stanley is subject to restrictions limiting its ability to pay dividends on its common stock. For a description of these
restrictions, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital Management Policies  herein.     

(B)  
  On June 30, 2007, Morgan Stanley completed the spin-off of Discover Financial Services (the  Discover Spin-off ). Prior to the Discover Spin-off, the Low Sale Price
and the High Sale Price for the Third Quarter were $82.73 and $90.95, respectively.              The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of Morgan Stanley of its common stock during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 30, 2008.             Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (dollars in millions, except per share amounts)         
       
   32     

Table of Contents  

(A)  
  On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of its outstanding stock under a new share repurchase
program (the  Share Repurchase Program ). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan
requirements. The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date.     

(B)  
  Includes: (1) shares delivered or attested to in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee and director stock options
(granted under employee stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under employee stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and
release of restricted shares; and (3) shares withheld (under the terms of grants under employee stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock
units. Morgan Stanley s employee stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares delivered or attested, or withheld, shall be valued using the fair market value of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date the relevant transaction
occurs, using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley.     

(C)  
  Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to capital management purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee
benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate. In addition, share purchases under such programs are in compliance with CPP restrictions. For more information, see  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital Management Policies  in Part II, Item 7 herein.     

(D)  
  Share purchases made during the month of October were made prior to the equity investment by the U.S. Treasury under its CPP (see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Equity Capital Management Policies ) in Part II, Item 7 herein.              ***             Stock performance graph.     The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of our
common stock, the S P 500 Stock Index ( S P 500 ) and the S P 500 Diversified Financials Index ( S5DIVF ) for our last five fiscal years. The graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on November 28,
2003 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. Historical prices are adjusted to reflect the Discover Spin-off. This graph does not forecast future performance of our common stock.           

33     

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data.                MORGAN STANLEY              SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)          
       
   34     

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Certain prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.     

(2)  
  Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings per basic common share.     
       
   35     

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.                  Introduction.             Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business
segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and
customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments is as follows.             Institutional Securities  includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and
acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities;
benchmark indices and risk management analytics; and investment activities.             Global Wealth Management Group  provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit
and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge
funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment
activities.            The Company s results of operations for the 12 months ended
November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ), November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ) and November 30, 2006 ( fiscal 2006 ) are discussed below.             Financial Holding Company.            On September 21, 2008, the Company obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ) to become a bank holding company
upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah), from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) authorized
Morgan Stanley Bank to commence business as a national bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrent with this conversion, the Company became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC
Act ). For more information about the Company s transition into a financial holding company, see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company  in Part I, Item 1 herein.             Change in Fiscal Year End.             On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the
Company s fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company will have a December 2008 fiscal month
transition period, the results of which will be separately reported in the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2009 and in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the calendar year
ending December 31, 2009.             Recent Business Developments.               Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Joint Venture.        On
January 13, 2009, the Company and Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine the Company s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and
Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. The Company will own 51%, and Citi will own 49% of the joint venture, after the contribution of the respective businesses to the joint venture and the
Company s payment  
       
   36     

Table of Contents  

of $2.7 billion to Citi. The Company will appoint four directors to the joint venture s board and Citi will appoint two directors. After year three, the
Company and Citi will have various purchase and sales rights for the joint venture. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2009 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.             Discontinued Operations.             On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the  Discover
Spin-off ) of its business segment Discover Financial Services ( DFS ) to its shareholders. The results of DFS are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. Fiscal 2008
included costs related to a legal settlement between DFS, VISA and MasterCard. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd., Global Wealth Management Group s former mass affluent business in the U.K., are also reported as discontinued operations for
all periods presented through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of the Company s former aircraft leasing business are also reported as discontinued operations through March 24, 2006, the date of sale. See Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements.         
   37     

Table of Contents  

      Executive Summary.               Financial Information.           
       
   38     

Table of Contents  

39     

Table of Contents  

N/M Not Meaningful   

(1)  
  Amounts represent income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net.     

(2)  
  Earnings applicable to common shareholders are used to calculate earnings per share information. Fiscal 2008 includes a preferred stock dividend of $97 million as well as $15
million for the amortization of discount on the issuance of Series D Preferred Stock and an allocation of $7 million of earnings to the Equity Units. See Notes 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006 include a preferred stock dividend of $68 million and $19 million, respectively.     

(3)  
  Regional net revenues reflect the regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:     

Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting client location; debt underwriting revenue recording location; sales and trading trading desk location.
Global Wealth Management Group: global representative location. Asset Management: client location, except for the merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.     

(5)  
  The computation of average common equity for each business segment is based upon an economic capital framework that estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the
businesses over a wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. The economic capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory
environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The effective tax rates used in the computation of segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis.     

(6)  
  For a discussion of average liquidity, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Funding Management Policies Liquidity Reserves  herein.

(7)  
  For a discussion of capital ratios, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  herein.     

(8)  
  Equity and fixed income amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business segments. Other
amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.     

(9)  
  Amounts reported for Alternatives reflect the Company s invested equity in those funds and include a range of alternative investment products such as hedge funds, funds of
hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.     

(10)  
  Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company s Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business segments.

(11)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     

(13)  
  Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.     

(14)  
  Annualized net revenue per global representative amounts equal Global Wealth Management Group s net revenues (excluding the sale of MSWM S.V., S.A.U.) divided by the quarterly
average global representative headcount for the periods presented.     

(15)  
  The decline in fee-based assets as a percentage of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company s fee-based (fee in lieu of
commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating a Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based
brokerage accounts, or at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a nondiscretionary account launched in August 2007.     

(16)  
  Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.     

(17)  
  Bank deposits are held at certain of the Company s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) insured depository institutions for the benefit of retail
clients through their accounts.     

(18)  
  Amounts include Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     
       
   40     

Table of Contents  

           Global Market and Economic Conditions
in Fiscal 2008.              During fiscal 2008, a severe downturn in the economy
led to price declines and a period of unprecedented volatility   across various asset classes. Losses that had previously been limited largely to the subprime mortgage sector during fiscal 2007 spread to residential and commercial mortgages
during fiscal 2008 as property prices declined rapidly. The effect of the economic and market downturn also spread to other areas of the credit market, including investment grade and non-investment grade corporate debt, convertible securities,
emerging market debt and equity, and leveraged loans. The magnitude of these declines led to a crisis of confidence in the financial sector as a result of concerns about the capital base and viability of certain financial institutions. During this
period, interbank lending and commercial paper borrowing fell sharply, precipitating a credit freeze for both institutional and individual borrowers.            In the U.S., credit conditions worsened considerably over the course of the year, and the U.S. entered into a recession (as announced by the National Bureau of Economic
Research) and the credit crisis assumed global proportions. The landscape of the U.S. financial services industry changed dramatically, especially during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( Lehman Brothers )
declared bankruptcy, and many major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge or were put into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government, including The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., Wachovia Corporation, WashingtonMutual,
Inc., Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) and Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ). In addition, the U.S. Federal Government provided a loan to American International Group Inc.
( AIG ) in exchange for an equity interest in AIG. In September 2008, following Lehman Brothers  bankruptcy, the Company and Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. each experienced significantly wider credit spreads on their outstanding debt and
sharp declines in stock market capitalization and subsequently received approval from the Fed to become bank holding companies. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially introduced as the Troubled Asset Relief
Program or  TARP ) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury (the  U.S. Treasury ) announced its intention to inject capital into nine large U.S. financial institutions, including the Company, under the
TARP Capital Purchase Program (the  CPP ) and since has injected capital into many other financial institutions. In November 2008, the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and the Fed provided
additional assistance to Citi, including an additional capital injection and a government guarantee on certain troubled assets, in exchange for preferred stock as well as other corporate governance measures.            The U.S. unemployment rate at the end of fiscal 2008 increased to 6.7% from 4.7% at the end
of fiscal 2007, reaching the highest level in the last fifteen years. In the U.S., equity market indices ended the fiscal year period significantly lower. Concerns about future economic growth, the adverse developments in the credit markets, mixed
views about the U.S. Federal Government s response to the economic crisis, including the CPP, lower levels of consumer spending, a high rate of unemployment and lower corporate earnings continued to challenge the U.S. economy and the equity
markets. Adverse developments in the credit markets, including failed auctions for auction rate securities ( ARS ), rising default rates on residential mortgages, extremely high implied default rates on commercial mortgages and liquidity
issues underlying short-term investment products, such as structured investment vehicles and money market funds, weighed heavily as well on equity markets. Oil prices also reached record levels during fiscal 2008 before declining sharply, partly due
to lower demand and weaker economic conditions.            During fiscal 2008, the Fed
announced a number of initiatives aimed to provide additional liquidity and stability to the financial markets, and the Fed continues to focus its efforts on mitigating the negative economic impact related to the credit markets. The Fed announced
enhancements to its programs to provide additional liquidity to the asset-backed commercial paper and money markets, and the Fed has indicated that it plans to purchase from primary dealers short-term debt obligations issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks. The Fed has established a commercial paper funding facility in order to provide additional liquidity to the short-term debt markets. The Fed continues to consult frequently with its global central bank
counterparts and  
       
   41     

Table of Contents  

during fiscal 2008, a number of coordinated benchmark interest rate reductions were announced by central banks globally. The Fed lowered both the
federal funds benchmark rate and the discount rate by 3.50% during fiscal 2008, and at fiscal year end the federal funds target rate was 1.00% and the discount rate was 1.25%. Also, during fiscal 2008, the Fed lowered the primary credit rate by
0.25%. In an additional effort to unlock credit markets, the Fed, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC announced that the FDIC will temporarily guarantee certain senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their U.S. bank holding
companies, subject to certain conditions. In December 2008, the Fed lowered both the federal funds benchmark rate and the discount rate by 0.75% to 0.25% and 0.50%, respectively, and rates remained at historically low levels.            In Europe, the unemployment rate rose and economic growth continued to slow during fiscal
2008 as export demand decreased, housing prices declined, consumer spending and business investment slowed, and the disruption in the global financial markets continued. In Europe, equity market indices were lower at the end of the fiscal year.
Concerns about the economic outlook and difficult conditions in the credit markets continued to challenge the European economy and the equity markets. In the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) indicated
that it remained concerned about global inflation and raised the benchmark interest rate by 0.25% to 4.25%, while the Bank of England ( BOE ) decreased the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% to 5.00%. In September 2008, the
Lehman Brothers  bankruptcy triggered additional credit disruptions, European governments intervened to support large financial institutions and financial services companies within Europe began to consolidate as lending conditions among
European banks worsened. After September 2008, global central banks worked collaboratively to reduce interest rates. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest rates by 1.00% to 3.25% and the BOE lowered its
benchmark interest rate by 2.00% to 3.00%. In December 2008, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest rate by 0.75% to 2.50% and the BOE lowered its benchmark interest rate by 1.00% to 2.00%. In January 2009, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest
rate by an additional 0.50% to 2.00%, and the BOE lowered its benchmark interest rate by an additional 0.50% to a historically low 1.50%.            In Asia, the global credit and financial crisis that began in the U.S. and spread throughout Europe adversely impacted the demand for Asian exports, in Japan as well as
in emerging markets across Asia. The level of unemployment in Japan, which began the fiscal year at relatively low levels began to rise. Major Asian equity market indices ended fiscal 2008 lower. The Bank of Japan ( BOJ ) lowered the
benchmark interest rate by 0.2% to 0.3% during fiscal 2008, and in December 2008, the BOJ reduced its benchmark interest rate by 0.2% to 0.1%. Economies elsewhere in Asia had slower growth, particularly in China and India, due to a lower level of
exports, which more than offset domestic demand for capital projects and domestic consumption. Central banks across Asia that previously had relatively high benchmark interest rates, such as Australia, China and India, have all significantly lowered
their benchmark interest rates, along with global central bank coordinated interest rate reductions.              Overview of Fiscal 2008 Financial Results.                The Company recorded net income of $1,707 million in fiscal 2008, a 47% decrease from $3,209 million in the prior year. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) decreased 12% to $24,739 million in
fiscal 2008. Non-interest expenses decreased 9% to $22,452 million from the prior year, primarily due to lower compensation costs, partly offset by goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. Compensation and benefits expense decreased
26%, primarily reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to lower net revenues in certain of the Company s businesses. Diluted earnings per share were $1.45 compared with $2.98 a year ago. Diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations were $1.54 compared with $2.37 last year. The return on average common equity in fiscal 2008 was 4.9% compared with 8.9% in the prior year. The return on average common equity from continuing operations for fiscal 2008 was 5.2%
compared with 7.8% in fiscal 2007.            The Company s effective income tax
rate from continuing operations was 21.0% in fiscal 2008 compared with 24.5% in fiscal 2007. The decrease primarily reflected lower earnings and a change in the geographic mix of earnings, partly offset by an increase in the rate due to the goodwill
impairment charges (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements).         
   42     

Table of Contents  

     Institutional Securities.      Institutional Securities recorded income from continuing
operations before income taxes of $2,925 million, a 280% increase from a year ago. Net revenues increased 3% to $16,622 million. The increase in net revenues reflected record equity sales and trading results, higher fixed income sales and trading
results, primarily due to lower net mortgage-related losses, gains related to the repurchase of the Company s debt, pre-tax gains related to two secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. and the widening of credit spreads on the Company s
borrowings for which the fair value option was elected, partially offset by net losses from investments in passive limited partnership interests and lower results in investment banking. Non-interest expenses decreased 11% to $13,697 million,
primarily due to lower compensation costs, partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 24%, primarily due to a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
related to certain fixed income businesses.            Investment banking revenues
decreased 34% to $3,630 million from last year due to lower revenues from advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and lower revenues from underwriting transactions. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and
restructuring transactions were $1,740 million, a decrease of 32% from fiscal 2007. Underwriting revenues decreased 37% from last year to $1,890 million. The decrease in investment banking revenues reflected the unprecedented market turmoil in
fiscal 2008 that significantly reduced levels of market activity.            Equity sales
and trading revenues increased 10% to a record $9,968 million and reflected higher net revenues from derivative products and slightly higher results in prime brokerage. Equity sales and trading also benefited by approximately $1.6 billion from the
widening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value. Fiscal 2008 reflected lower revenues from principal trading strategies. Fixed income sales and trading revenues were $3,862
million in fiscal 2008 from $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 results reflected lower losses in mortgage loan products, record revenues from commodities and record results in foreign exchange products, partially offset by lower net revenues
from the interest rate and credit businesses, reflecting the continued dislocation in the credit markets and unfavorable positioning. In addition, fixed income sales and trading benefited by approximately $3.5 billion from the widening of the
Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.            In fiscal 2008, other sales and trading losses of approximately $3,133 million reflected mark-to-market losses on loans and commitments that were partly offset by gains
on related hedges. Fiscal 2008 also included losses related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks. In addition, other sales and trading losses included mark-to-market gains on certain swaps
previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company ( i.e ., the swaps were  de-designated  as hedges).
During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.       
     Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $2,477 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 compared with net investment gains of $1,459 million
in fiscal 2007. The losses were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company s real estate funds and investments that benefit
certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, and other principal investments.              Global Wealth Management Group.      Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $1,154 million compared with $1,155 million in
fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. ( MSWM S.V. ), the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business (see Note 20 to the
consolidated financial statements). Fiscal 2008 also included a charge of $532 million associated with the ARS repurchase program and $108 million associated with subsequent writedowns of some of these securities that have been repurchased (see
Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). Net revenues were $7,019 million, a 6% increase over a year ago, primarily related to the previously mentioned sale of MSWM S.V. and higher net interest revenues from growth in the bank deposit
program. The increase in net revenues was partly offset by  
       
   43     

Table of Contents  

lower revenues from asset management, distribution and administration fees and lower investment banking revenues. The decline in asset management revenues
reflected a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements, the discontinuance of the Company s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007
pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage and asset depreciation. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 32% from a year ago to $136 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to
25% from last year s 27%. In addition, total client assets decreased to $546 billion, down 28% from the prior fiscal year-end, primarily due to asset depreciation.       
     Total non-interest expenses were $5,865 million, a 7% increase from a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense remained flat in fiscal 2008, as
severance-related expenses of $41 million and investment in the business were offset by lower incentive-based compensation accruals. Non-compensation costs increased 25%, primarily due to the charge of $532 million for the ARS. In addition,
fiscal 2007 included an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation matter. The increase in non-compensation costs was partly offset by a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements. As
of November 30, 2008, the number of global representatives was 8,426.              Asset Management   .     Asset Management recorded losses before income taxes of $1,807 million in fiscal 2008 compared with income before income taxes of $1,467 million in fiscal 2007. Net revenues of
$1,292 million decreased 76% from the prior year. The decrease in fiscal 2008 primarily reflected principal transaction net investment losses of $1,661 million compared with gains of $1,774 million a year ago. The losses in fiscal 2008 were
primarily related to net investment losses associated with the Company s merchant banking business, which includes the real estate, private equity and infrastructure businesses, and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit of
the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was also due to lower asset management, distribution and administration fees, primarily due to lower performance fees from alternative investment
products, lower distribution fees, and lower fund management and administration fees reflecting a decrease in average assets under management. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of $399 billion were down $198
billion, or 33%, from last year, primarily reflecting decreases in equity and fixed income products resulting from market depreciation and net outflows. Non-interest expenses decreased 23% from the prior year to $3,099 million. Compensation and
benefits expense decreased primarily due to lower net revenues and losses associated with principal investments for the benefit of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in compensation expense in
fiscal 2008 was partially offset by severance-related expenses of $97 million. The decrease in non-interest expenses was partly offset by an impairment charge of $243 million related to Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership
( Crescent ).              Strategic Initiatives.                  The Company has launched several strategic initiatives to further improve its
position in the rapidly changing market environment, including:         

Targeting capital to businesses where the Company believes it will have better risk-adjusted returns, including flow trading, equity derivatives, foreign exchange,
interest rates and commodities;            

Engaging in a reduction of balance sheet intensive businesses within the Institutional Securities business segment, including a resizing of prime brokerage and the
exit from select proprietary trading strategies;            

Targeting an additional $2 billion in cost savings, including the annualized effect of the previously announced headcount reductions and additional non-compensation
expense savings in 2009;            

Developing a global alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ), Japan s largest banking group, and pursuing initiatives in corporate
and investment banking, retail banking and lending activities;            

Launching a Retail Banking business to build bank deposits leveraging the Company s existing retail banking capabilities and financial holding company
structure; and            

Forming the largest wealth management business firm with Citi, as measured by financial advisors, through a joint venture (see  Recent Business
Developments  herein).            
   44     

Table of Contents  

      Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.             The Company s results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations
and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political and economic conditions and geopolitical events; the
effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates,
currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial
markets; the Company s reputation; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; and the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, and technological changes in the U.S. and worldwide. Such factors also
may have an impact on the Company s ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company s business, see  Competition  and
 Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.            The following items significantly affected the Company s results in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007.             Corporate Lending.     The results for fiscal 2008 included net losses of approximately $3.3 billion (consisting of negative mark-to-market
valuations and losses of approximately $6.3 billion net of gains on related hedges of approximately $3.0 billion) associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies.
These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the year.            The results for fiscal 2007 included losses of approximately $700 million, primarily recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and lending commitments
largely related to  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies. The losses included markdowns of leveraged lending commitments associated with  event-driven  lending transactions that were accepted by the borrower
but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007.             Mortgage-Related Trading Losses.     In fiscal 2008, the Company recorded mortgage-related losses of approximately $1.7 billion. The $1.7
billion included losses on non-subprime residential mortgages of approximately $2.6 billion, partially offset by gains on commercial mortgage-backed securities and commercial whole loan positions of approximately $800 million and gains of
approximately $100 million on U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures. See  Other Matters Real Estate-Related Positions  herein for information relating to the Company s mortgage-related trading exposures.
           In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $9.0 billion of
mortgage-related writedowns resulting from an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related instruments. The writedowns included $7.8 billion related
to U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ). These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company s mortgage proprietary trading group.
As the credit markets in general, and the mortgage markets in particular, declined dramatically in the fourth quarter, increases in the implied cumulative losses in the subprime mortgage market, coupled with the illiquid nature of the Company s
trading positions, led to a significant deterioration in value in its subprime-related trading positions. The writedowns in fiscal 2007 also included $1.2 billion related to commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ), Alt-A mortgages
(a categorization that falls between prime and subprime due to certain loan characteristics) and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans and European non-conforming loans.             Subsidiary Banks .    The Company recorded losses of approximately $900 million in fiscal 2008 related to
mortgage-related securities portfolios of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust (collectively, the  
       
   45     

Table of Contents  

Subsidiary Banks ). See  Other Matters Real Estate-Related Positions Subsidiary Banks  herein for further information on these
securities portfolios.            Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the
securities in the Subsidiary Banks  portfolios were classified as securities available for sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities  ( SFAS No. 115 ). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined that it no longer intended to hold these securities until the fair value of the securities recovered to a level that exceeded their
initial cost. Accordingly, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions-trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on its portfolio of securities available for sale in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified the portfolios to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective November 30, 2007.             Auction Rate Securities.     Under the terms of various agreements entered into with government agencies and the
terms of the Company s announced offer to repurchase, the Company agreed to repurchase at par certain ARS held by retail clients that were purchased through the Company. In addition, the Company agreed to reimburse retail clients who have sold
certain ARS purchased through the Company at a loss. Fiscal 2008 reflected charges of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program and writedowns of $108 million associated with ARS held in inventory (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial
statements).             Monoline Insurers.     Monoline
insurers ( Monolines ) provide credit enhancement to capital markets transactions. Fiscal 2008 included losses of $1.7 billion related to monoline exposures. The current credit environment severely affected the capacity of such financial
guarantors. The Company s direct exposure to Monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by Monolines and to derivative contracts with a Monoline as counterparty. The Company s exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2008 consisted
primarily of asset-backed securities ( ABS ) bonds of approximately $700 million in the Subsidiary Banks  portfolio that are collateralized primarily by first and second lien subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, $3.1
billion in insured municipal bond securities and approximately $500 million in net counterparty exposure (gross exposure of approximately $8.0 billion net of cumulative credit valuation adjustments of approximately $3.8 billion and net of hedges).
The Company s exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2007 consisted primarily of ABS bonds of $1.5 billion in the Subsidiary Banks  portfolio, $1.3 billion in insured municipal bond securities and $800 million in net counterparty
exposure. The Company s hedging program for Monoline risk includes the use of both CDSs and transactions that effectively mitigate certain market risk components of existing underlying transactions with the Monolines. The increase in the
Company s exposure to Monolines from November 30, 2007 was primarily due to the ARS repurchase program as previously mentioned, as many ARS are insured by Monolines.             Structured Investment Vehicles.     The Company recognized losses of $470 million in fiscal 2008 compared with
$129 million in fiscal 2007 related to securities issued by structured investment vehicles ( SIVs ) included in the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition (see  Asset Management  herein).             Real Estate Holdings and Real Estate Investor Funds.     Principal
transaction net investment revenues in fiscal 2008 included losses related to real estate holdings and investor funds. Approximately $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion of these losses were recognized in the Institutional Securities and Asset Management
business segments, respectively. Losses in the Institutional Securities business segment were related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the
Company s real estate funds. Losses in the Asset Management business segment included writedowns on its investment in Crescent of approximately $250 million prior to the Company consolidating its assets and liabilities in fiscal 2008. These
writedowns are reflected in Principal transactions investments in the consolidated statement of income.            Also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $243 million related to Crescent, which is reflected in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. See  Other
Matters Real Estate-Related Positions  herein for further information.         
   46     

Table of Contents  

    Goodwill and Intangibles.     Fiscal 2008 included impairment charges related to goodwill and
intangible assets of $725 million (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Given the future uncertainty in the performance of financial market and economic conditions, the Company will perform an interim impairment test as necessary in
2009, which could result in additional impairment charges.             Morgan Stanley
Debt.     Net revenues benefited by approximately $5.6 billion and $840 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term
borrowings, including structured notes and junior subordinated debentures, that are accounted for at fair value.            In addition, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded gains of approximately $2.3 billion from repurchasing its debt in the open market and
mark-to-market gains of approximately $1.4 billion on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt.   These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the
Company ( i.e ., the swaps were  de-designated  as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.
            Sales of Subsidiaries and Other Items.     Results
for fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $1.5 billion related to the secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. and a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V. (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements).            Results for fiscal 2007 included a gain of $168 million ($109 million after-tax) in
discontinued operations related to the sale of Quilter Holdings Ltd. on February 28, 2007 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements) and the $360 million reversal of the Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ( Coleman )
litigation reserve.               Capital-Related
Transactions.               During fiscal 2008, the Company entered into several
capital-related transactions that increased shareholders  equity and long-term borrowings by approximately $24.6 billion. Such transactions included the sale of equity units (the  Equity Units ) to a wholly owned subsidiary of the
China Investment Corporation Ltd. ( CIC ) for approximately $5.6 billion and the issuance to MUFG of shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock and shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting
Perpetual Preferred Stock for a total of $9 billion. In addition, the Company, as part of the CPP, issued to the U.S. Treasury 10,000,000 shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and Warrants to purchase 65,245,759 shares
of common stock for a purchase price of $10 billion.            See Note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these capital-related transactions.         
   47     

Table of Contents  

      Business Segments.             Substantially all of the Company s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments.
Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.            As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile
the segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by the Asset
Management business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment s global
representatives. Income from continuing operations before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations was $15 million, $2 million and $23 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. Included in the results of
Intersegment Eliminations for fiscal 2007 is a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in consolidation. In addition, the results in the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2006 included a $30
million advisory fee related to the Company s sale of its former aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.         
   48     

Table of Contents  

    INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking   .     Investment banking revenues are comprised of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans. Investment banking revenues were as follows:
        
          Investment banking revenues decreased
34% in fiscal 2008, reflecting the unprecedented market turmoil in fiscal 2008 that significantly reduced levels of market activity. This contrasts to fiscal 2007, when investment banking revenues increased 31% from fiscal 2006 and reached record
levels, reflecting a more favorable market environment with higher levels of advisory and capital raising activity.            In fiscal 2008, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,740 million, a decrease of 32% from fiscal 2007. Advisory fees in fiscal
2008 reflected lower levels of activity due to the challenging market environment. In fiscal 2007, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 45% to a record $2,541 million, primarily reflecting a strong
volume of transaction activity.            Equity underwriting revenues decreased 33% to
$1,045 million in fiscal 2008, reflecting significantly lower levels of market activity, particularly for initial public offerings. Equity underwriting revenues increased 48% to a record $1,570 million in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher global
industry-wide equity and equity-related activity.         
   49     

Table of Contents  

   Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 41% to $845 million in fiscal 2008 and increased 1% to $1,427 million in
fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 revenues were impacted by significantly lower levels of market activity across most products, particularly loan syndications and securitized products. The 1% increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily due to strong revenues from
underwriting investment grade corporate products, which was partially offset by declines in other debt products, primarily non-investment grade.            At the end of fiscal 2008, the backlog for investment banking transactions was lower across most products as compared with the end of fiscal 2007, reflecting difficult
market conditions. The backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions is subject to the risk that transactions may not be completed due to challenging or unforeseen economic and
market conditions, adverse developments regarding one of the parties to the transaction, a failure to obtain required regulatory approval or a decision on the part of the parties involved not to pursue a transaction.              Sales and Trading Revenues   .     Sales and trading
revenues are composed of principal transaction trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest
revenues (expenses) in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among
other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company s positions, and other
related expenses.            The components of the Company s sales and trading
revenues are described below:             Principal
Transactions Trading.     Principal transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the
Company s positions, as well as proprietary trading activities for its own account.             Commissions.     Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity securities and options.             Net Interest.     Interest and dividend revenues and interest
expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity
in the Company s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered
into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase
agreements or securities loaned transactions.            Total sales and trading revenues
increased 33% and decreased 47% in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2008 reflected higher equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading revenue.
        
   50     

Table of Contents  

   Sales and trading revenues can also be analyzed as follows:         

(1)  
  Amounts include Principal transactions trading, Commissions and Net interest revenues (expenses). Other sales and trading net revenues primarily include net losses from loans
and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company s investment banking, corporate lending and other corporate activities. All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.
              Equity Sales and Trading
Revenues.     Equity sales and trading revenues increased 10% to a record $9,968 million in fiscal 2008 and reflected record net revenues from derivative products and slightly higher results in prime brokerage. Equity sales
and trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected pursuant to
SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 159 ) on December 1, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Equity sales and trading revenues
reflected approximately $1.6 billion due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads during fiscal 2008 resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured
notes, for which the fair value option was elected. Revenues from derivative products reflected higher customer flows and high levels of volatility. Principal trading strategies reflected significantly lower revenues in fiscal 2008 as
the Company exited select proprietary trading strategies. Although prime brokerage revenues increased in fiscal 2008, in the fourth quarter, the Company s prime brokerage business experienced significant outflows as clients withdrew their cash
balances and reallocated positions. These outflows have had a negative impact on prime brokerage s operating results in fiscal 2008.            Fiscal 2008 equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized losses of approximately $300 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative
contracts attributable to the widening of the counterparties  credit default spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of approximately $125 million in fiscal 2008 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts
attributable to the widening of the Company s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains do not reflect any gains or losses on related non-derivative hedging instruments.            Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a then record $9,040 million in fiscal
2007, benefiting from international revenues. The increase was driven by higher revenues from derivative products, prime brokerage and equity cash and financing products, partially offset by trading losses in quantitative strategies resulting from
unfavorable positioning. Revenues from derivative products benefited from strong customer flows. Prime brokerage generated increased revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Higher revenues from financing products were
primarily due to higher commission revenues driven by strong market volumes. Equity sales and trading revenues also reflected approximately $390 million due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair
value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.             Fixed Income Sales and Trading Revenues.     Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased to $3,862 million in fiscal 2008 from $268
million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 results reflected lower losses in mortgage loan products, record revenues from commodities and record results in foreign exchange products, partially offset by lower net revenues from the interest rate and credit
businesses. Interest rate, currency and credit products revenues decreased 55% in fiscal 2008. Continued dislocation in the credit markets resulted in lower net revenues from credit products including losses of $1.7 billion related to exposure to
monoline insurers (see  
       
   51     

Table of Contents  

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Monoline Insurers  herein) and unfavorable positioning, partially offset by higher revenues
from foreign exchange products and strong results in interest rate products. Record results in foreign exchange products were primarily due to higher levels of customer flows and market volatility. Mortgage-related losses of approximately $1.7
billion were primarily due to a broadening decline in the residential and commercial mortgage sector. The decline in the Company s mortgage loan product activities reflected the difficult credit market conditions in fiscal 2008. See  Other
Matters Real Estate-Related Positions  herein for further information. Commodity revenues increased 62%, primarily due to higher revenues from oil liquids and electricity and natural gas products, reflecting higher market volatility and
strong customer flow. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2008 by approximately $3.5 billion from the widening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the
Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.            Fiscal 2008 fixed income sales and trading revenues reflected unrealized losses of approximately $6.6 billion related to changes in the fair value of net derivative
contracts attributable to the widening of the counterparties  credit default spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of approximately $2.0 billion in fiscal 2008, related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts
attributable to the widening of the Company s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains do not reflect any gains or losses on related non-derivative hedging instruments.            Fixed income sales and trading revenues decreased 97% to $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal
2007 results reflected significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. Credit product revenues decreased $9.4 billion, primarily reflecting
mortgage-related writedowns of $7.8 billion, reflecting the deterioration in value of U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs entered into primarily by the Company s mortgage proprietary trading
group. Spread widening, lower liquidity and higher volatility resulted in lower origination, securitization and trading results across most credit product groups and also adversely affected the performance of the Company s hedging strategies.
The Company s residential and commercial mortgage loan activities contributed to the significant decline in credit product revenues, reflecting the difficult market conditions, as well as continued concerns in the subprime mortgage loan sector.
Interest rate, credit and currency products revenues increased 16% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher revenues from interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products. Commodity revenues decreased 33%, primarily due to lower trading
results from oil liquids, electricity and natural gas products and lower revenues recognized on structured transactions. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from gains on interest rate derivatives. Fixed income sales and trading
revenues also benefited in fiscal 2007 by approximately $450 million from the widening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily
structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.            In addition to
the equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues included other trading revenues, consisting primarily of certain activities associated with the Company s corporate lending activities. In
connection with its corporate lending activities, the Company provides to select clients loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) that are generally classified as either  event-driven  or  relationship-driven. 
 Event-driven  loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions.  Relationship-driven  loans and lending
commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. For further information about the Company s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk Credit Risk.  The Company s corporate lending business intends to distribute its current positions; however, this is taking substantially longer than in the past due to market conditions. Widening credit spreads for
non-investment grade loans have resulted in significant writedowns in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, and further deterioration could result in additional writedowns for these loans and lending commitments in excess of hedges. The fair value
measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account certain fee income that is attributable to the contingent commitment contract.         
   52     

Table of Contents  

   In fiscal 2008, other sales and trading losses were approximately $3.1 billion. Included in the $3.1 billion were net
losses of $3.3 billion (negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of $6.3 billion, net of gains on related hedges of $3.0 billion) associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to certain  event-driven  lending to
non-investment grade companies. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. The
$3.1 billion also included writedowns of securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the Company s Subsidiary Banks. For further information, see  Other Matters Real Estate-Related Positions Subsidiary Banks  herein. In
addition, other sales and trading losses included mark-to-market gains of approximately $1.4 billion on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges
once the related debt was repurchased by the Company ( i.e. , the swaps were  de-designated  as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by
adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.            In fiscal 2007, other sales
and trading losses of approximately $1.2 billion primarily reflected approximately $700 million of mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and commitments largely related to  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies
and the impairment charge related to securities in the Company s Subsidiary Banks. The losses included markdowns of leveraged lending commitments associated with  event-driven  lending transactions that were accepted by the borrower
but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007.              Principal Transactions Investments.      The Company s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation. It is not
possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments may
involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.            Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $2,477 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with net investment gains
aggregating $1,459 million and $1,081 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The losses in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership
interests associated with the Company s real estate funds and investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and other principal investments. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily related to realized
and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company s investments, including Grifols S.A. and Bovespa Holdings S.A., and higher revenues from the Company s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with
the Company s real estate funds. The increase in fiscal 2007 also reflected higher revenues primarily due to the appreciation of investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Fiscal 2006 s results
primarily reflected net gains associated with the Company s investments.              Other.      Other revenues increased 395% in fiscal 2008 and 132% in fiscal 2007. The increase in fiscal 2008 reflected revenues related to Institutional Securities  share (approximately $2.1 billion) of
the Company s repurchase of debt (see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt  herein for further discussion) and two secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. totaling approximately $1.5 billion (see Note 20
to the consolidated financial statements). Fiscal 2008 also included a gain associated with the sale of a controlling interest in a previously consolidated commodities subsidiary. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily attributable to revenues
related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and higher sales of benchmark indices and portfolio risk performance analytic products.              Non-Interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses decreased 11% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower compensation expense. Compensation
and benefits expense decreased 28%, primarily reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to a challenging market environment, partially offset by severance-related expenses of $653 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding compensation and
benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%. Fiscal 2008 results included a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to certain fixed income businesses (see Note 6 to the
consolidated financial  
       
   53     

Table of Contents  

statements), and fiscal 2007 s results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company s favorable outcome from the
Coleman litigation. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 27%, primarily due to higher depreciation expense on property and equipment and higher costs associated with exiting certain property lease agreements. Information processing and
communications expense increased 5% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher data processing costs and market data. Marketing and business development expense decreased 7%, primarily due to lower levels of business activity. Other expenses increased
141%, reflecting the previously mentioned charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and the legal reversal of $360 million in fiscal 2007 as previously mentioned, partially offset by lower minority
interest.            Non-interest expenses increased 15% in fiscal 2007. Compensation and
benefits expense increased 10%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals for certain businesses. The increase also reflected higher costs associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by
Institutional Securities  share ($190 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).
Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%, reflecting increased levels of business activity and expenses associated with acquired businesses. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 33%, primarily due to
higher rent and occupancy costs in Europe, Asia and the U.S. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 30%, primarily reflecting substantially increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Marketing and business development expense
increased 27%, primarily due to a higher level of business activity. Professional services expense increased 6%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs related to increased business activity. Other expenses increased 51%, reflecting
costs associated with the subsidiaries acquired in September and December 2006, partially offset by lower net litigation accruals. Fiscal 2007 results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company s favorable
outcome from the Coleman litigation. Fiscal 2006 included legal accruals related to the pending settlement of General American litigation, which was partially offset by a favorable outcome related to the LVMH litigation.         
   54     

Table of Contents  

    GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking.      Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and
unit trusts, which are generally earned from offerings underwritten by the Institutional Securities business segment. Investment banking revenues decreased 32% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower underwriting activity across equity and unit trust
products, partially offset by an increase in fixed income underwriting activity. Investment banking revenues increased 46% in fiscal 2007, primarily due to strong underwriting activity across equity, fixed income and unit trust products.   
          Principal Transactions Trading.      Principal
transactions include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer
transactions. Principal transaction trading revenues increased 3% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher revenues from municipal, corporate and government fixed income securities, partially offset by $108 million in writedowns on $3.8 billion of
ARS repurchased from clients and held on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition and losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. In fiscal 2007, principal transaction trading
revenues increased 23%, primarily due to higher revenues from derivative products, municipal and corporate fixed income securities, and foreign exchange products and higher revenues associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred
compensation plans.              Principal
Transactions Investments.      Principal transaction net investment losses were $54 million in fiscal 2008 compared with net investment gains of $29 million and $57 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
The results in fiscal 2008 reflected net losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. The results in fiscal 2007 reflected lower net gains from certain of the Company s investments in exchanges
and memberships compared with fiscal 2006.              Commissions.      Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues
decreased 2% in fiscal 2008, reflecting lower client activity. Commission revenues increased 23% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher client activity.         
   55     

Table of Contents  

     Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.      Asset management,
distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management, account services and administration. The Company also receives shareholder servicing fees
and fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are
affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 11% in fiscal 2008 compared with an 11% increase in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2008, the decrease was driven by a change in the classification of
sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements, the discontinuance of the Company s fee-based brokerage program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and asset depreciation. In fiscal 2007, the increase was primarily due
to higher client asset balances in fee-based accounts. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 32% to $136 billion as of November 30, 2008 and represented 25% of total client assets versus 27% at November 30, 2007. Client assets in
fee-based accounts rose 3% to $201 billion at November 30, 2007 and represented 27% of total client assets versus 29% at November 30, 2006.            Total client asset balances decreased to $546 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $758 billion as of November 30, 2007, primarily due to asset
depreciation. Client asset balances in households greater than $1 million decreased to $349 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $522 billion at November 30, 2007 and $442 billion at November 30, 2006.              Net Interest.      Interest and dividend revenues and
interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased 32% and 46% in fiscal
2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. The increase in both periods was primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $36.4 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $26.2
billion at November 30, 2007.              Other.      Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues were $965 million and $163 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively.
Fiscal 2008 included $743 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V., the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business, during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements) and Global Wealth
Management Group s share ($43 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt (see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt  herein for further discussion). Fiscal 2007 reflected higher service fees
and higher other miscellaneous revenues.              Non-Interest
Expenses.      Non-interest expenses increased 7% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting the charge of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). Compensation and
benefits expense remained flat in fiscal 2008, as severance-related expenses of $41 million and investment in the business were offset by lower incentive-based compensation accruals. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses
increased 25%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 8%, primarily due to an increase in space costs and branch renovations. Professional services expense decreased 40%, primarily due to the change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due
to modifications of certain customer agreements and lower legal costs. Other expenses increased 206%, primarily resulting from the charge of $532 million related to ARS as previously mentioned and higher litigation costs.         
   56     

Table of Contents  

   Non-interest expenses increased 9% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense,
partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses, primarily due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the business. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher
incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues and investments in the business, partially offset by Global Wealth Management Group s share ($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to
retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 2%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 6%,
primarily due to leasehold improvements and higher rental costs. Information processing and communications expense decreased 8%, primarily due to lower computing costs. Marketing and business development expense increased 39%, primarily due to costs
associated with the Company s advertising campaign. Other expenses decreased 20%, primarily resulting from a reduction in costs associated with legal and regulatory matters, which included an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation
matter.         
   57     

Table of Contents  

    ASSET MANAGEMENT        
      INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
            Investment
Banking.      Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate funds and the underwriting of unit trust products. Investment banking revenues decreased 77% in
fiscal 2008 and increased 91% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in fiscal 2008 primarily reflected lower revenues from real estate products. The increase in fiscal 2007 primarily reflected higher revenues from certain real estate products.              Principal Transactions Trading.      In fiscal 2008, the
Company recognized losses of $346 million, which included $470 million related to securities issued by SIVs included in the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition. These losses were partially offset by net gains from hedges on
certain investments. In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized losses of $129 million related to SIVs.            SIVs are unconsolidated entities that issue various capital notes and debt instruments to fund the purchase of assets. While the Company does not sponsor or serve as asset manager to any unconsolidated SIVs, the
Company does serve as investment advisor to certain unconsolidated money market funds ( Funds ) that have investments in securities issued by SIVs. In the second half of fiscal 2007, widespread illiquidity in the commercial paper market
led to market value declines and rating agency downgrades of many securities issued by SIVs, some of which were held by the Funds. As a result, the Company purchased at amortized cost approximately $900 million of such securities from the Funds
during fiscal 2007 and $217 million of such securities during fiscal 2008. The carrying value of the purchased securities still held by the Company as of November 30, 2008 was $209 million. Such positions are reflected at fair value and are
presented in Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Funds had investments in securities issued by SIVs of an aggregate face value of approximately $100 million as of
November 30, 2008 compared with $8.2 billion as of November 30, 2007. Subsequent to November 30, 2008, the Company has not purchased additional SIV securities from the Funds and the Funds no longer have investments in such securities.
The Company has no obligation to purchase any additional securities from the Funds in the future.         
   58     

Table of Contents  

   During fiscal 2008, money market and liquidity funds advised by the Company s asset management affiliates that
invest primarily in corporate obligations experienced net outflows of $18 billion. Credit and liquidity conditions deteriorated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, resulting in material redemptions from corporate money market and liquidity funds.
The Company purchased approximately $25 billion of securities from the funds during fiscal 2008. Most of the securities have matured or were sold by the Company. At November 30, 2008, $600 million were included in
the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition. The securities were purchased by the Company to fund investor redemptions amid illiquid trading markets for a wide range of money market instruments. Securities purchased included
commercial paper, municipals, certificates of deposit and notes. All of the securities were short term in nature and were rated A1/P1 or better. These purchases were funded primarily through various available stabilization facilities.            The Company does not consolidate these money market and liquidity funds because the Company
does not have a controlling financial interest in the funds nor is it the primary beneficiary of such funds. The Company also does not have a significant variable interest in such funds.              Principal Transactions Investments.      Asset Management principal transaction investment revenues
consist primarily of gains and losses on the Company s investments.            Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $1,661 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with gains of $1,774 million in fiscal 2007. The results in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net investment losses
associated with the Company s merchant banking business, including real estate and private equity investments, and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment
plans. Included in the net investment losses in fiscal 2008 were writedowns of approximately $250 million on Crescent prior to its consolidation. See  Other Matters Real Estate-Related Positions Real Estate Investor Funds  herein
for further discussion. The results in fiscal 2007 were primarily driven by investments associated with the Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio, including employee deferred compensation plans and co-investment plans.
           Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term
appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of
the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.              Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.      Asset Management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts
and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset Management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives
fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in
certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 16% in fiscal 2008 compared with an increase of 37% in fiscal 2007. The
decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to lower performance fees from alternative investment products, lower distribution fees, and lower fund management and administration fees, reflecting a decrease in average assets under management. Fiscal
2008 also reflected lower shareholder servicing fees related to the modification of certain sub-transfer agent agreements, which resulted in an offsetting reduction to professional services expense. The increase in fiscal 2007 was due to higher fund
management and administration fees resulting from an increase in assets under management and a more favorable asset mix. The increase was also due to higher performance fees from the alternatives business.         
   59     

Table of Contents  

   Asset Management s year-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:         

(1)  
  Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.     

(3)  
  The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.           
   60     

Table of Contents  

   Activity in Asset Management s assets under management or supervision during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were as
follows:         

(1)  
  Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(2)  
  Amount represents Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.              Net flows in fiscal 2008 were primarily associated with negative outflows from Van Kampen and
Morgan Stanley Retail and Intermediary products and institutional money markets.              Other.      Other revenues increased 517% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to the revenues associated with Crescent. See  Real Estate-Related Positions Real Estate Investor Funds Crescent 
herein for further discussion. The increase in fiscal 2008 also included Asset Management s share ($74 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt (see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt 
herein for further discussion) and higher revenues associated with Lansdowne Partners ( Lansdowne ), a London-based investment manager in which the Company has a minority interest. Other revenues increased 188% in fiscal 2007, primarily
due to revenues associated with Lansdowne and Avenue Capital Group, a New York-based investment manager, which the Company acquired minority stakes in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.              Non-Interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses decreased 23% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting a
decrease in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by higher operating costs and an impairment charge of $243 million associated with Crescent. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 53% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease
in compensation costs reflecting lower net revenues and losses associated with principal investments for the benefit of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was partially offset by
severance-related expenses of $97 million. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 27%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 16%, primarily due to higher costs related to increased occupancy usage
compared with fiscal 2007. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 9%, primarily due to lower commission expenses. Professional services expense decreased 20%, primarily due to lower sub-advisory fees and sub-transfer agent fees,
partially offset by an increase in consulting and legal fees. Other expenses increased 412%, primarily due to Crescent operating costs and impairment charges of $268 million, including the $243 million noted above.         
   61     

Table of Contents  

   Non-interest expenses increased 55% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits
expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 81% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to expenses associated with certain
employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Asset Management s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal
2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 29%, primarily due to higher rental costs associated with
business growth. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 10%, primarily due to increased fee sharing, increased assets under management and higher commission expenses associated with the launching of new products. These increases were offset
by a decrease in the deferred commission amortization. Information processing and communications expense increased 21%, primarily due to higher licensing fees associated with the acquisition of FrontPoint Partners ( FrontPoint ).
Professional services expense increased 47%, primarily due to higher sub-advisory fees related to the acquisition of FrontPoint. Other expenses increased 47%, primarily due to an insurance reimbursement received in fiscal 2006 related to certain
legal matters and an increase in other miscellaneous expenses.         
   62     

Table of Contents  

      Other Matters.             The following matters are discussed in the Company s notes to the consolidated financial statements. For further information on these
matters, please see the applicable note:         

Note    

Accounting Developments:    

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes    
      
  2   

Employee Benefit Plans    
      
  2   

Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts    
      
  2   

Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards    
      
  2   

Business Combinations    
      
  2   

Noncontrolling Interests    
      
  2   

Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions    
      
  2   

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities    
      
  2   

Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets    
      
  2   

Earnings Per Share    
      
  2   

Instruments Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock    
      
  2   

Fair Value Measurements    
      
  2   

Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities and Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities    
      
  2   

Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets    
      
  2   

Disclosures about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities    
      
  2   

Income Taxes    
      
  17   

Discontinued Operations    
      
  19   

Business Acquisitions and Dispositions and Sale of Minority Interest    
      
  20   
           Real Estate-Related Positions.  
            Overview.     The Company has real estate exposure   (1)    to:           

non-subprime residential mortgages, a category which includes prime, Alt-A, European and Asian residential mortgage loans, residential mortgage-backed securities
bonds ( RMBS ) and derivatives referencing such mortgages or mortgage-backed securities;            

commercial whole loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and related derivatives;            
   63     

Table of Contents  

U.S. subprime mortgage-related trading positions consisting of U.S. asset-backed securities ( ABS ), collateralized debt obligation ( CDO )
securities, investments in subprime loans and derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities; and            

real estate properties and real estate investor funds.          

(1)  
  Subprime mortgages are loans secured by real property made to a borrower (or borrowers) with a diminished or impaired credit rating or with a limited credit history. A
borrower s credit history is reflected in his credit report and routinely converted into a numerical credit score often referred to as a Fair Isaac Corporation (or  FICO ) score. Generally, a loan made to a borrower with a low FICO
score or other credit score has historically been considered subprime. Loans to borrowers with higher FICO scores are typically considered prime or A1t-A, but may be subprime if the loan exhibits other high-risk factors.           

The Company exposures include interests in and derivatives with CDOs. CDOs provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of securities ( cash CDOs ) or a reference portfolio
of securities ( synthetic CDOs ). The underlying or reference portfolios may consist of ABS, RMBS, CMBS or other securities. The CDOs to which the Company has exposure were primarily structured and underwritten by third parties, although
the Company also structured and underwrote CDOs for which it received structuring and/or distribution fees, and from time to time retained interests in such CDOs.              The Company s interests in mortgage-related positions are carried at fair value with changes recognized in earnings. The valuation
methodology used for these instruments incorporates a variety of inputs, including prices observed from the execution of a limited number of trades in the marketplace; ABX, CMBX and similar indices that track the performance of a series of credit
default swaps based on subprime residential or commercial mortgages; and other market information, including data on remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on the underlying mortgages. The fair value of such positions experienced
significant declines in the second half of fiscal 2007 and throughout fiscal 2008 as a result of a deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments. The value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market
volatility. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description regarding valuation of these instruments.            The Company s non-subprime residential, commercial and U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures have each been reduced in fiscal 2008 through writedowns, sales,
paydowns, and hedging and trading activities, whereby the Company purchased protection including credit default, index and total rate-of-return swap positions.         
  The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related and lending-related positions in order to manage its exposures to these markets and businesses. As market
conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these positions could further deteriorate.            The following tables provide a summary of the Company s non-subprime residential, commercial and U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures (excluding amounts related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in
the Company s Subsidiary Banks) as of and for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, as well as the Company s Net Exposure. The Company utilizes various methods of evaluating risk in its trading and other portfolios,
including monitoring its Net Exposure. Net Exposure is defined as potential loss to the Company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of the referenced loan, assuming zero recovery. Positive net exposure amounts indicate potential loss
(long position) in a default scenario. Negative net exposure amounts indicate potential gain (short position) in a default scenario. Net Exposure does not take into consideration the risk of counterparty default such that actual losses could
exceed the amount of Net Exposure. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein for a further description of how credit risk is monitored. For a further discussion of the
Company s risk management policies and procedures see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A herein.         
   64     

Table of Contents  

     Non-subprime Residential Mortgage-Related Exposures.           

(1)  
  Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. As of
November 30, 2008, the $8.0 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $8.3 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $0.3 billion. As
of November 30, 2007, the $16.5 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as Financial instruments owned of $16.5 billion.     

(2)  
  At November 30, 2008, gross and net exposure on non-subprime residential loans and bonds was split 53% Alt-A/near prime and 47% prime underlying collateral. Gross and net
exposure of U.S. Alt-A residential loans and bonds was $1.6 billion at November 30, 2008.     

(3)  
  Amounts represent both hedges and directional positioning. At November 30, 2008, these positions included credit default and super senior CDO swaps.     

(4)  
  Amounts represent assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of
Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 140 ), and Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 46, as revised ( FIN 46R ),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,  that function as
collateral for an offsetting amount of non-recourse debt to third parties. Any retained interests in these transactions are reflected in RMBS bonds.     
            Commercial Mortgage-Related Exposures.           

(1)  
  Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. As of
November 30, 2008, the $17.0 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $24.1 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $7.1 billion. As
of November 30, 2007, the $31.5 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $33.2 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $1.7 billion.

(2)  
  Amounts include unfunded lending commitments.     

(4)  
  Amounts represent both hedges and directional positioning. At November 30, 2008, amounts include credit default, super senior CDOs, index and total rate-of-return swaps.

(5)  
  Amounts represent assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FIN 46R that function as collateral for an offsetting amount of non-recourse debt to third
parties. Any retained interests in these transactions are reflected in CMBS bonds.     

(6)  
  Regional distribution of Net Exposure of the long positions ( i.e.,  CMBS bonds, commercial loans and warehouse lines) was 62% U.S., 17% Europe and 21% Asia at
November 30, 2008.           
   65     

Table of Contents  

     U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.           

(1)  
  Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. In
addition, these amounts reflect counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are subprime-related; they do not reflect any counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same
counterparty that are not subprime related. As of November 30, 2008, the $9.3 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $13.9 billion and Financial
instruments sold, not yet purchased of $4.6 billion. As of November 30, 2007, the $6.1 billion is reflected in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $15.3 billion and
Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $9.2 billion.     

(2)  
  CDO squared refers to CDOs where the collateral is comprised entirely of other CDO securities.     

(3)  
  In determining the fair value of the Company s ABS super senior CDO-related exposures the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited
number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. Deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments have led to significant declines in the estimates of fair
value. These declines reflected increased implied losses across this portfolio. At November 30, 2008, these implied loss levels are consistent with losses in the range between 22%   48% implied by the ABX indices. These cumulative loss
levels, at a severity rate of 62%, imply defaults in the range of 79%   95% for 2005 and 2006 outstanding mortgages.           
   66     

Table of Contents  

    Subsidiary Banks.             The securities portfolios of the Subsidiary Banks include certain subprime-related securities. The portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.
           At November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the securities
portfolios totaled $7.2 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, consisting primarily of investment grade-rated ABS bonds and residential mortgage-backed securities. Of these total amounts, $2.7 billion and $5.5 billion were subprime mortgage-related
securities as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively.             Real Estate Investments.              Real Estate Investor
Funds .    The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner.       
      Crescent.     An affiliated entity of the Company acquired an investment in Crescent in August 2007. The assets of Crescent
primarily include office buildings, investments in resorts and residential developments in select markets across the U.S. (the  Crescent properties ). The Company had originally intended to include the Crescent properties in an investor
fund but at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company modified its investment strategy based on various factors, including current market conditions, valuation, size of the investment and timing of the fund, and determined to operate
Crescent and risk manage the Crescent properties.            As a result, the Company
consolidated Crescent s assets and liabilities of approximately $4.7 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, as of May 31, 2008. The Company will continue to evaluate the Crescent properties and position them for sale as opportunities
arise.            Prior to consolidating the assets and liabilities of Crescent, the
Company recorded writedowns on its investment of approximately $250 million. These writedowns are included in the Asset Management business segment and are reflected in Principal transactions investments in the consolidated statement of income
for fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $243 million, which is reflected in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.            Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the consolidated operating results of Crescent
are included in the Asset Management business segment. Fiscal 2008 included net revenues of $37 million, non-interest expenses of $568 million and a loss before income taxes of $531 million related to Crescent.             Real Estate Investments.     The Company s real estate
investments are shown below by business group, property type and geographic region. Such amounts exclude investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.         
       
   67     

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Amounts are shown gross of any non-recourse debt provided by external lenders which reduces the Company s exposures.     

(2)  
  Real estate bridge financing in fiscal 2007 primarily included amounts related to Crescent.               Stock-Based Compensation.             The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ). For further
information on SFAS No. 123R, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.            Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated year-end equity awards that are granted to
retirement eligible employees in the first quarter of the following year. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year. As such, the Company accrued the estimated
cost of fiscal 2008 year-end awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the 2008 fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2008).            As a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following
costs:         

amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

the full cost of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2005); and            

the full cost of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2006).               Fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:

amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and            

the full cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2007).            
   68     

Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2008 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:         

amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;            

amortization of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and            

the full cost of fiscal 2008 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2008).               Fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four
years, while subsequent year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years.             Coleman Litigation.               Effective
November 30, 2007, the Company reversed a $360 million reserve previously established under SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  ( SFAS No. 5 ) for a claim filed against the Company by Coleman.             Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.               Contributions.      The Company made contributions of $326
million and $131 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.            The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of
plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable
employee benefit and tax regulations (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or  ERISA ). As of November 30, 2008, there were no minimum required ERISA
contributions for the Company s U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and
are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.              Expense.      The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee s estimated service period. This process involves making
certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In accordance with the adoption of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ), the measurement date to determine plan assets, liabilities and expense was changed from September 30 to November 30. Net periodic
pension expense was $134 million, $145 million and $160 million, while net periodic postretirement expense was $17 million, $14 million and $18 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.            See Notes 2 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the
Company s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans including the adoption of SFAS No. 158.         
   69     

Table of Contents  

      Critical Accounting Policies.             The Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S.
GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the
following involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.             Fair Value.
              Financial Instruments Measured at Fair
Value.      A significant number of the Company s financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets
and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:         

Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;            

Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;            

Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;            

Certain Deposits;            

Other secured financings; and            

Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes and certain junior subordinated debentures.               Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.            In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable
prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in active markets, and
Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and therefore require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market dislocation, such as those experienced in fiscal 2008, the observability of prices and
inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could lead to further declines in the
valuation of many instruments. For further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 hierarchy, and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.            The Company s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty
netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $86.2 billion and $73.7 billion as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively, and represented approximately 27% as of November 30, 2008 and 15% as of
November 30, 2007 of the assets measured at fair value (13% and 7% of total assets as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across
the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $28.4 billion and $19.5 billion as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively, and represented approximately 16% and 7%, respectively, of the Company s liabilities measured at
fair value.            During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $17.3
billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, commercial whole loans and corporate loans. The reclassifications were due to
a reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these
instruments. These unobservable inputs include, depending upon the position, assumptions to establish  
       
   70     

Table of Contents  

comparability to bonds, loans or swaps with observable price/spread levels, default recovery rates, forecasted credit losses and prepayment rates. The
Company reclassified approximately $7.5 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications primarily related to ABS and corporate loans as some liquidity re-entered the market for these specific positions,
and external prices and spread inputs for these instruments became observable.              Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.        Certain of the Company s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets include certain
goodwill, certain intangible assets, certain premises and equipment, certain equity method investments, certain loans and certain real estate investments that were impaired during fiscal 2008, primarily in the fourth quarter, and written down to
their fair value. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could result in additional impairment charges in future periods.            For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as
described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs, by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.            For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value
on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see Note 2 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.             Fair Value Control Processes .    The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control
processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation
approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant
expertise who are independent from the trading desks. Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control, Market Risk and Credit Risk Departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values
generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the
model.            Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually
negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or both parties to a
derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company s
recorded fair value for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and
make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company s risk management practices, see  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A herein.             Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.             In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global
diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would
otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.         
   71     

Table of Contents  

   The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and
informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties,
injunctions or other relief.            Reserves for litigation and regulatory
proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the
opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and
proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement,
fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.            The Company is subject to the
income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the
taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect
taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The
Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years  examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate.            The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and
regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5. The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of tax audits in accordance with FASB Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 . Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.
Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any.            See Notes 9 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on
legal proceedings and tax examinations.             Special Purpose Entities and
Variable Interest Entities.            The Company s involvement with special
purpose entities ( SPEs ) consists primarily of the following:         

Transferring financial assets into SPEs;            

Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;            

Holding one or more classes of securities issued by, or making loans to or investments in SPEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets;

Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) securities issued by SPEs/VIEs, whether such vehicles are sponsored by the
Company or not;            

Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs (whether or not sponsored by the Company);            

Providing warehouse financing to CDOs and CLOs;            

Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPEs whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs;            
   72     

Table of Contents  

Servicing assets held by SPEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;

Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by SPEs; and

Structuring and/or investing in other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.
              The Company engages in securitization activities related to
commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial instruments. The Company s involvement with SPEs is discussed further in
Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.            In most cases, these SPEs are
deemed for accounting purposes to be variable interest entities ( VIEs ). Unless a VIE is determined to be a QSPE (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), the Company is required to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date
upon which the Company becomes involved with it to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company must consolidate the VIE. QSPEs are not consolidated. In addition, the Company serves as an investment
advisor to numerous unconsolidated money market and other funds.            The Company
reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. If the Company s initial assessment results in a determination that it is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then the Company
reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to
receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.          

Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.               If the Company s initial assessment results in a determination that it is the primary beneficiary, then the Company reassesses this
determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to
receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.          

A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.            

The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.               The determination of whether an SPE meets the accounting requirements of a QSPE requires
significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved in
determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires significant judgment (see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements).         
   73     

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity and Capital Resources.             The Company s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital policies of the
Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and
interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company s asset and liability position. The Company s Treasury Department and other control groups, assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company s business
activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure.            Global market and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, volatility reached unprecedented levels. In particular, the Company s cost and availability of
funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 the Company became a financial holding company under the BHC Act and gained additional access
to various government lending programs and facilities including the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ( CPFF ), the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ), the Term Securities Lending Facility ( TSLF ) and the
Primary Dealer Credit Facility ( PDCF ) (for a further discussion about these lending programs and facilities, see  Funding Management Policies-Secured Financing  herein). During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company
further diversified its funding profile and increased its liquidity position by accessing these programs and engaging in a reduction of balance sheet intensive businesses within the Institutional Securities business segment.             The Balance Sheet.             The Company actively monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. A substantial portion of the Company s total
assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size
of its balance sheet.            The Company s total assets decreased to $658,812
million at November 30, 2008, from $1,045,409 million at November 30, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in securities borrowed, financial instruments owned corporate and other debt and corporate equities, securities
received as collateral, federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and receivables from customers, partially offset by increases in interest bearing deposits with banks. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company
increased its focus on rescaling the size of its balance sheet intensive businesses including prime brokerage and select proprietary trading strategies.            Within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. As of November 30, 2008, securities
financing assets and liabilities were $251 billion and $238 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and
obligation to return securities received, customer receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash.            Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for
the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated,
according to regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company s prime brokerage clients. The Company s risk exposure on these transactions is
mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets was $5 billion recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 which represented equal and
offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.         
   74     

Table of Contents  

   The Company uses the balance sheet leverage ratio, the Tier 1 leverage ratio and risk based capital ratios (see
 Regulatory Requirements  herein) as indicators of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of the Company s overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company utilizes the leverage ratio when evaluating leverage trends. The
balance sheet leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders  equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital
needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities including their long-dated nature, the Company s ability to defer
coupon interest, and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities.            The following table sets forth the Company s total assets and leverage ratios as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007
and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007:         

(1)  
  Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders  equity.               Balance Sheet and Funding Activity in Fiscal 2008.        
     The Company s total non-current portion of long-term borrowings, shareholders  equity and deposits form a stable source of long-term funding for
the Company.         
          During fiscal 2008, the Company issued
notes with a carrying value at year-end aggregating approximately $45 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $13 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain
transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the Company s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately
6.4 years at November 30, 2008 and 5.5 years at November 30, 2007.         
   75     

Table of Contents  

   As of November 30, 2008, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company s senior indebtedness was
approximately $156 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $207 billion as of November 30, 2007. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to maturities and repurchases
of senior debt as well as currency revaluations.             China Investment
Corporation Investment.             In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units
that included contracts to purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC s ownership in the Company s common stock, including the number of shares of common stock to be received by
CIC upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the Company s total shares outstanding based on the total shares that were outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC is a passive financial investor and has no
special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds was treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.            For a more detailed summary of the Equity Units, including the junior subordinated debentures issued to support trust common and trust
preferred securities and the stock purchase contracts, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.             Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.             On October 13, 2008, the Company issued to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred Stock ) and 1,160,791 shares of Series C Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock ( Series C Preferred Stock ) for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion that gave MUFG a 21% ownership interest on a fully-diluted basis at the date of issuance (see Note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements). The Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock qualify as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.             Capital Purchase Program.             The Company was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP, and on October 26, 2008 entered into a Securities Purchase
Agreement Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, 10 million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock of the Company (the  Series D Preferred Stock ) and warrants to purchase up to 65,245,759 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $22.99 per share (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements).            The Series D Preferred Stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital and
ranks senior to the Company s common shares and  pari passu , which is at an equal level in the capital structure, with existing preferred shares, other than preferred shares which by their terms rank junior to any other existing preferred
shares. The Series D Preferred Stock pays a compounding cumulative dividend rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and will reset to a rate of 9% per annum after year five. The Series D Preferred Stock is non-voting, other than class voting
rights on matters that could adversely affect the Series D Preferred Stock. The Series D Preferred Stock is callable at par after three years. Prior to the end of three years, the Series D Preferred Stock may be redeemed with the proceeds from one
or more qualified equity offerings of any Tier 1 perpetual preferred or common stock of at least $250 million. The U.S. Treasury may also transfer the Series D Preferred Stock to a third party at any time. The number of shares to be delivered upon
settlement of the warrant will be reduced by 50% if the Company receives aggregate gross proceeds of at least 100% of the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Series D Preferred Stock ($10 billion) from one or more qualified equity offerings
prior to December 31, 2009.             Equity Capital Management Policies.
            The Company s senior management views equity capital as an important
source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory

76     

Table of Contents  

requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its
businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries  equity.            As of November 30, 2008, the Company s equity capital (which includes shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts) was
$61,097 million, an increase of $24,952 million from November 30, 2007, primarily due to the CIC, MUFG and CPP investments and growth in retained earnings.         
  In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock.
This share repurchase authorization replaced the Company s previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as
equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2008, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. During fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased
$711 million of its common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,  in Part II,
Item 5). As a condition under the CPP, the Company s share repurchases are currently limited to purchases in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan, consistent with past practices, including purchases to offset
share dilution in connection with any such plans. This restriction is effective until October 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of the Company s preferred shares issued under the CPP.            The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly
basis. In December 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $348.35 per share of Series A
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.34835); a quarterly dividend of $25.56 per share of perpetual Fixed
Rate Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B; a quarterly dividend of $25.56 per share of perpetual Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C; and a quarterly dividend of $10.69 per share of perpetual Fixed Rate Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series D. As part of its participation in the CPP, the Company agreed that it would not, without the U.S. Treasury s consent, increase the current dividend on its common stock as long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP
remains outstanding until the third anniversary of the investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties.            In addition, pursuant to the terms of the CPP investment, the Company is prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of
common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking  pari passu  with the Series D Preferred Stock or repurchasing or redeeming any shares of the Company s common shares, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking
 pari passu  with the Series D Preferred Stock in any quarter unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on the Series D Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods (including the latest completed dividend period), subject to certain
limited exceptions.             Economic Capital.             The Company s economic capital framework estimates the amount of equity capital
required to support the businesses over a wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. The framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and
regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques.            Economic capital is assigned to each business segment and sub-allocated to product lines. Each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity. This process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in
each business in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis (such as return on equity and shareholder value added).         
   77     

Table of Contents  

   Economic capital is based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses. The Company assesses
stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. Economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 capital. For a further discussion of the Company s Tier 1 capital see  Regulatory
Requirements  herein. The difference between the Company s Tier 1 capital and aggregate economic capital requirements denotes the Company s unallocated capital position.            The following table presents the Company s allocated average Tier 1 capital ( economic capital ) and average common equity
for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007:         
          Tier 1 capital allocated to the
Institutional Securities business segment increased compared with fiscal 2007 driven by growth in credit risk exposure partially offset by the incorporation of market risk capital model enhancements. Tier 1 capital and common equity allocated to
Asset Management increased primarily due to consolidation of Crescent on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition. See  Other Matters Real Estate-Related Positions Real Estate Investments Crescent 
herein for further discussion. Additionally, the proportion of common equity allocated to the operating segments decreased due to the issuance of hybrid capital. See  China Investment Corporation Investment,   Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.  and  Capital Purchase Program  herein.            The Company
generally uses available unallocated capital for organic growth, additional acquisitions and other capital needs, including repurchases of common stock where permitted under the terms of the CPP while maintaining adequate capital ratios. For a
discussion of risk-based capital ratios, see  Regulatory Requirements  herein.             Liquidity and Funding Management Policies.             The primary goal of the Company s liquidity management and funding activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments. Given the mix of the Company s business activities, funding requirements are
fulfilled through a diversified range of secured and unsecured financing.            The
Company s liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations without material franchise or business impact.
The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the Company s business strategies while ensuring sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of stressed
market conditions.             Liquidity Management Policies.             The principal elements of the Company s liquidity management framework are the
Contingency Funding Plan ( CFP ) and Liquidity Reserves. Comprehensive financing guidelines (secured funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification and staggered maturities) support the Company s target
liquidity profile.         
   78     

Table of Contents  

     Contingency Funding Plan.      The Contingency Funding Plan is the Company s primary
liquidity risk management tool. The CFP models a potential, prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and sets forth a course of action to effectively manage a liquidity event. The CFP and liquidity risk exposures are evaluated on
an on-going basis and reported to the Firm Risk Committee and other appropriate risk committees.            The Company s CFP model is designed to be dynamic and scenarios incorporate a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year and no incremental unsecured debt issuance; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral;
(iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a two-notch long-term credit ratings downgrade; (v) higher
haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding, similar to a stressed cash capital approach; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured
debt buybacks.            The CFP is produced on a parent and major subsidiary level to
capture specific cash requirements and cash availability at various legal entities. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be held at certain subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. In
addition, the CFP assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities.              Liquidity Reserves.      The Company seeks to maintain target liquidity reserves that are sized to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in the CFP.
These liquidity reserves are held in the form of cash deposits with banks and pools of unencumbered securities. The parent company liquidity reserve is managed globally and consists of overnight cash deposits and unencumbered U.S. and European
government bonds and other high-quality collateral. All of the parent securities are central bank eligible. The Company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserves (cash and securities) are maintained enhances its ability to
quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company s funding requirements and target liquidity reserves may vary based on changes to the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions,
client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.            On
November 30, 2008, the parent liquidity reserve was $61 billion and the total Company liquidity reserve was $130 billion. The average parent liquidity reserve was $69 billion and the average total Company liquidity reserve was $138 billion for
fiscal 2008.             Committed Credit Facilities.             The Company maintains a $5 billion senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks
to support general liquidity needs, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and the British pound, all of which exist with the Company as borrower.
At November 30, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement. The credit agreement expires on April 16, 2009 and the Company does not expect to renew this facility.             Capital Covenants.             In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital
Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the  Capital Securities ). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability
to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company s Current Reports on Form 8-K
dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.         
   79     

Table of Contents  

    Funding Management Policies.             The Company s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of
disruption to the Company s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company s liabilities
equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period.       
     The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company s equity capital, long-term debt,
repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting
global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.              Secured Financing.      A substantial portion of the Company s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term
receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with collateralized borrowings.            The Company s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured funding through
appropriate use of collateralized borrowings. The Institutional Securities business segment emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption
during periods of financial stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business segment continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity.            In addition, the Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various
businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.
           On March 11, 2008, the Fed announced an expansion of its securities
lending program to promote liquidity in the financing markets for Treasury securities and other collateral. Under the TSLF, the Fed will lend up to $200 billion of Treasury securities to primary dealers secured for a term of 28 days (rather than
overnight, as in the existing program) by a pledge of other securities, including federal agency debt, federal agency residential-mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ), and non-agency AAA/Aaa-rated private-label residential MBS. In September
2008, the Fed changed the TSLF from a monthly to a weekly competitive auction.            On March 16, 2008, the Fed announced that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the  New York Fed ) has been granted the authority to establish a PDCF. The PDCF provides overnight funding to primary dealers in exchange for a
specified range of collateral. The Company may at times use the PDCF as an additional source of secured funding for its regular business operations. In September 2008, the New York Fed expanded the schedule of collateral acceptable under the
PDCF.            In September 2008, the Company became a financial holding company under
the BHC Act (see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company  in Part I). Additionally, the Fed authorized the New York Fed to extend credit to the Company s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary against all types of collateral
that may be pledged at the Fed s Primary Credit Facility ( PCF ) for depository institutions or at the PDCF. The Fed also authorized the New York Fed to extend credit to the Company s London-based broker-dealer subsidiary against
collateral that would be eligible to be pledged at the PDCF.              Unsecured
Financing.      The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. Securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current
assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate  
       
   80     

Table of Contents  

long-term debt swapped to a floating rate and deposits. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist
in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).             Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.     In October 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury invoked the systemic risk exception of the FDIC
Improvement Act of 1991 and the FDIC announced the TLGP.            The TLGP provides a
guarantee, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, of certain senior unsecured debt issued by participating Eligible Entities (including the Company) between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. The maximum amount of FDIC-guaranteed debt a
participating Eligible Entity (including the Company) may have outstanding is 125% of the entity s senior unsecured debt that was outstanding as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009. The ability of
Eligible Entities (including the Company) to issue guaranteed debt under this program is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $16.2 billion of senior unsecured debt outstanding under the TLGP.
             Short-Term Borrowings.      The Company s
unsecured short-term borrowings may consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of twelve months or less at issuance.            The table below summarizes the Company s short-term unsecured borrowings:         
           Commercial Paper Funding
Facility.     On October 7, 2008, the Fed announced the creation of the CPFF, a facility that complements the Fed s existing credit facilities to help provide liquidity to term funding markets. The CPFF provides
a liquidity backstop to U.S. issuers of commercial paper through a special purpose vehicle that purchases three-month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper directly from eligible issuers. The CPFF is intended to improve liquidity in
short-term funding markets and thereby increase the availability of credit for businesses and households. The CPFF finances only highly rated, U.S. dollar-denominated, three-month commercial paper. On October 27, 2008, the CPFF began
funding purchases of commercial paper. The Company has been participating in the CPFF program.              Deposits.      The Company s bank subsidiaries  primary source of funding includes bank deposit sweeps, federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, money market deposit
accounts, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances.            Deposits were
as follows:         

(1)  
  Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).              Deposits increased over the past year as consistent with the Company s ongoing strategy
to enhance its stable funding profile.         
   81     

Table of Contents  

   On October 3, 2008, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the FDIC temporarily raised the basic
limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This increased coverage lasts through December 31, 2009 and is in effect for Morgan Stanley s two U.S. depository institutions.            Additionally, under the Final Rule implementing the TLGP, the FDIC provides unlimited deposit
insurance through December 31, 2009, for certain transaction accounts at FDIC-insured participating institutions. The Company has elected for its FDIC-insured subsidiaries to participate in the account guarantee of the TLGP.              Long-Term Borrowings.      The Company uses a variety of
long-term debt funding sources to generate liquidity, taking into consideration the results of the CFP. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments ( e.g. ,
commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Financing transactions are structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional
and retail clients. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. As a
result of the significant disruptions in the credit markets, the cost of new financing available to the Company during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 increased significantly.            During fiscal 2008, the Company s long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance
sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions). As a result, for fiscal 2008, a principal amount of approximately $45 billion of unsecured debt was issued.            The Company may from time to time engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt repurchases) which it
believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased $12.1 billion of fixed/floating rate long-term debt.            The Company s long-term borrowings included the following components:         
           Credit Ratings.             The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day
operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are dependent on the Company s short-term and long-term credit ratings. In addition, the Company s debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues,
particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Factors that are important to the determination of the Company s
credit ratings include the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix.            In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required
to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. As of November 30, 2008, the amount of additional collateral that could be called by counterparties under the terms of collateral agreements
in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company s long-term credit rating was approximately $498.3 million. An additional amount of approximately $1,456.2 million could be called in the event of a two-notch downgrade. Of these amounts,
$1,013.2 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon  
       
   82     

Table of Contents  

the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk
management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.            As of January 28, 2009, the Company s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below. The Company does not intend to
disclose any future revisions to, or withdrawals of, these ratings, except in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K.         

Company    
     
     Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.     

Short-Term Debt    
     
     Long-Term Debt    
     
     Rating Outlook    
     
     Short-Term Debt    
     
     Long-Term Debt    
     
     Rating Outlook     
 
    Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited   
     
  R-1 (middle)  
     
  A (high)  
     
  Negative  

Fitch Ratings   
     
  F1  
     
  A  
     
  Stable  
     
  F1  
     
  A+  
     
  Stable   
 
    Moody s Investors Service   
     
  P-1  
     
  A2  
     
  Negative  
     
  P-1  
     
  A1  
     
  Negative   
 
    Rating and Investment Information, Inc.     
     
  a-1  
     
  A+  
     
  Downgrade Review  

Standard   Poor s   
     
  A-1  
     
  A  
     
  Negative  
     
  A-1  
     
  A+  
     
  Negative   
           Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with
Unconsolidated Entities.             The Company enters into various arrangements
with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities business segment.              Institutional Securities Activities   .     The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The
Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may
retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such
retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $1.2 billion at November 30, 2008, substantially all of which were related to residential mortgage
loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. For further information about the Company s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements as
well as  Critical Accounting Policies  herein.            The Company has
entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event
payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements).              Guarantees.      FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others  ( FIN 45 ), requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor
to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset,
liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. FIN 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement as
well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.         
   83     

Table of Contents  

   The table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties,
market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at November 30, 2008:         

(1)  
  Fair value amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

(2)  
  Approximately $2.2 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments  table below in primary and secondary lending commitments.
             In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the
debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and
are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
        See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred
securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees.             Commitments and Contractual Obligations.             The Company s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment
activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending as of November 30, 2008 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the
amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial
condition (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).     

(2)  
  This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $571 million as of November 30, 2008, of which $563 million have maturities of less than one year
and $8 million of which have maturities of three to five years.           
   84     

Table of Contents  

(3)  
  The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to November 30, 2008 and settle
subsequent to year-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and as of November 30, 2008,
$45.5 billion of the $46.5 billion settled with three business days.     

(4)  
  This amount includes binding commitments to enter into margin-lending transactions of $1.0 billion as of November 30, 2008 in connection with the Company s Institutional
Securities business segment.              For further description of these
commitments, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II Item 7A.            In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual
obligations at November 30, 2008 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company s future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of November 30, 2008 are summarized below:

(1)  
  See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(2)  
  See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(3)  
  Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications
maintenance agreements. Purchase obligations at November 30, 2008 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for
goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements regarding subsequent events.               Regulatory Requirements.             In September 2008, the Company became a financial holding company subject to the
regulation and oversight of the Fed. In granting financial holding company status, the Fed will evaluate the Company s compliance with well-capitalized standards prospectively (see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding
Company  in Part I). Prior to September 2008, the Company was a consolidated supervised entity as defined by the SEC.            During fiscal 2008 and as of November 30, 2008, the Company calculated capital requirements on a consolidated basis in accordance with the Basel II Accord as interpreted
by the SEC. The Basel II Accord is designed to be a risk-based capital adequacy approach, which allows for the use of internal estimates of risk components to calculate regulatory capital. As of November 30, 2008, the Company was in compliance
with Basel II capital requirements with a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ) of 26.8%. The Company seeks to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of at least 6%. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was
17.9%.            In addition to the above ratios, financial holding companies are also
subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Fed. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and
deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for the fiscal quarter. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was 6.6%.         
   85     

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the Company s Basel II consolidated capital ratios and allowances as of
November 30 and August 31, 2008 (dollars in millions):         
          Total allowable capital is comprised
of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders  equity as well as qualifying preferred stock (including cumulative preferred stock issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury and non-cumulative
preferred stock), trust preferred securities mandatorily convertible to common equity and other junior subordinated debt issued to trusts less goodwill (excluding minority ownership), non-servicing intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing
rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year) and debt valuation adjustment ( DVA ). DVA represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain of the Company s borrowings (for which the fair value option was
elected) that was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Tier 2 capital consists of qualifying
subordinated and long-term debt. Long-term debt included in Tier 2 capital has a maturity greater than five years and is limited (together with qualifying subordinated debt) to an amount equal to 50% of Tier 1 capital, until December 1, 2008
when long-term debt no longer is included in Tier 2 capital. The Company s total capital ratio excluding long-term debt from Tier 2 capital was 19.4% as of November 30, 2008.            As of November 30, 2008, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the SEC which is
consistent with guidelines described under the Basel II Accord. RWAs reflect both on and off balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and
incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations. For March 31, 2009 and future dates, the Company expects to calculate its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance
with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework described in the  International Convergence of Capital Measurement,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as
Basel I.         
   86     

Table of Contents  

   Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices
and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company s market risks and Value-at-Risk model, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A
herein. Market RWAs incorporate three components: Systematic risk, Specific risk, and Incremental Default risk ( IDR ). Systematic and Specific risk charges are computed using either a Standardized Approach (applying a fixed
percentage to the fair value of the assets) or the Company s Value-at-Risk model. Capital charges related to IDR are calculated using an IDR model that estimates the loss due to sudden default events affecting traded financial instruments at a
99.9% confidence level. In addition, Market RWAs include assets classified as investments for which capital is computed using a Standardized Approach.            Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further
discussion of the Company s credit risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein. Credit RWAs are determined using either an Internal Ratings-based
( IRB ) Approach, which reflects the Company s internal estimate of a borrower or counterparty s credit worthiness, or a Standardized Approach. A Standardized Approach is used for certain asset categories, including receivables
( e.g ., fees, interest and other), premises, equipment and software costs, and other assets where a fixed percentage is applied to the fair value of the assets. Credit capital charges related to certain loans, OTC derivative receivable
exposures and security financing transactions are computed using an IRB Approach. Within the IRB Approach, future potential credit exposure resulting from derivative receivables is estimated using an internal model and is the most significant
contributor to total Credit RWAs. The risk-reducing effect of hedges related to loan and counterparty exposures is excluded from capital calculations.            Operational risk capital charges are designed to account for the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events and
take into account legal risk. RWAs for operational risk are currently calculated under the Basic Indicator Approach in accordance with Basel II. The Company holds capital equal to the average net revenues over the previous three years using a fixed
percentage. For a further discussion of operational risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.            The Company also employs an Economic Capital framework, whereby incremental capital for
stress losses is held in addition to capital requirements under Basel II requirements (see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Economic Capital  herein).             Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.             The Company s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although
inflation may result in increases in the Company s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities
markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company s financial position and profitability.            A significant portion of the Company s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S.
dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are
designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency
forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.         
   87     

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk.              Risk Management.              Risk Management Policy and Control Structure.             Risk is an inherent part of the Company s business and activities. The Company s
ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to its soundness and profitability. The Company s portfolio of business activities helps reduce
the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. The Company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks
involved in the Company s business activities: market, credit, liquidity and funding, operational and legal risk. Liquidity and funding risk is discussed in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7. The Company s currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in Note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements.            The cornerstone of the Company s risk
management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the Company s capital base and franchise. The Company s risk management philosophy is based on the following principles:
comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. Given the importance of effective risk management to the Company s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and
appropriate escalation of risk matters.            Risk management at the Company
requires independent Company-level oversight, accountability of the Company s business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. The Company s senior management takes an active role in
the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the Company and business segment level. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the Company s risk management
philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification.            The nature of the Company s risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the Company s risk governance structure. The Company s risk
governance structure includes the Firm Risk Committee, the Chief Risk Officer, the Internal Audit Department, independent control groups, and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across business segments.
           The Firm Risk Committee, composed of the Company s most senior officers,
oversees the Company s risk management structure. The Firm Risk Committee s responsibilities include oversight of the Company s risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material market, credit,
liquidity and funding, legal, operational and franchise risks and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The Firm Risk Committee is overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Audit
Committee ).            The Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm Risk Committee
who reports to the Chief Executive Officer, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves certain excessions of Company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes
with the Audit Committee.            The Internal Audit Department provides independent
risk and control assessment and reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The Internal Audit Department examines the Company s operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all
major risk categories.            The Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk,
Financial Control, Treasury, and Legal and Compliance Departments (collectively, the  Company Control Groups ), which are all independent of the Company s  
       
   88     

Table of Contents  

business units, assist senior management and the Firm Risk Committee in monitoring and controlling the Company s risk through a number of control
processes. The Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company s risk management and monitoring systems and
processes.            Each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for
ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk
framework established by the Firm Risk Committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures,
and related controls.            Each of the Company s business segments also has
designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively,  Segment Control Groups  and, together with the Company Control Groups, the  Control Groups ) to manage
and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. The Control Groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment s
market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Control Groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures,
exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review.            The following is a discussion of the Company s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than funding and liquidity risk). The
discussion focuses on the Company s securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal
risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company s market risk exposure generated by the Company s statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of
future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.             Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying
instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result of trading and client facilitation
activities, principally within the Institutional Securities business where the substantial majority of the Company s Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, the Company incurs trading-related market
risk within the Global Wealth Management Group. Asset Management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles.            Sound market risk management is an integral part of the Company s culture. The various
business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The Control Groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management.
The Market Risk Department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the
Market Risk Department monitors the Company s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the Company s VaR system. A variety of limits is designed
to control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario analyses

89     

Table of Contents  

conducted by the Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports
produced by the Market Risk Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management.              Recent Market Conditions.              Recent unprecedented events in the global markets (see  Executive Summary Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2008  Part II, Item 7 herein) are significantly outside the loss estimates forecast by VaR
models and are more commonly measured by alternative risk measures such as stress tests and scenario analysis. In fiscal 2008, the Company continued to enhance these alternative risk measures to better reflect exposures arising from certain products
( e.g. , securitized products). The Company continues to improve its risk measurement using stress tests and scenario analysis and has refined its market risk limit framework. These actions, however, may not address the potential severity of
possible losses as actual market moves may continue to be more dramatic than the estimates included in the Company s VaR, stress tests and scenario analyses. For a further discussion on limitations to VaR models, see  VaR Methodology,
Assumptions and Limitations  below.              Sales and Trading and Related
Activities.                Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk
Management.      During fiscal 2008, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and
spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities.            The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive financial instruments ( e.g.,  risk arising from changes in the level or
implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active include, but are not limited
to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).            The Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making
markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary positions (including positions in non-public entities). Positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital,
private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities.            The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign
currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments. The Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and
maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result
of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.
           The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk
mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of  
       
   90     

Table of Contents  

positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options).
Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being
hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such
a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the Company s aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company s senior management.
           Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company and for its
major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and
regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.            The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company s trading portfolios on a
regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing VaR and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company s trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity
to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures.            Net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the Company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset, assuming zero recovery, is one key risk
measure the Company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain
products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Market Risk Department. The Market Risk Department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the Company s revenue
sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events.              Value-at-Risk (VaR)   .     The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market
Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.              VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations   .     The Company estimates VaR using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation
for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. Historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of
daily changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors  and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. The Company s VaR model uses approximately four years
of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. The Company s 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been
exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.            The Company s VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread risk and linear exposures to
implied volatility risks. Market risks that are incorporated in the VaR model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. The VaR model also captures certain
correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. As a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk factors, the
Company s VaR model uses Monte Carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products ( i.e. , corporate bonds, loans, and credit derivatives).         
   91     

Table of Contents  

   The Company s VaR models evolve over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to
improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and
dynamics. As part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model s ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors. In response
to increased levels of market volatility realized during fiscal 2008, the Company has reviewed the appropriateness of the implementation of its VaR models and has made certain changes to more accurately capture risks generated by certain fixed
income products. These changes include additional historical time series that provide broader product coverage of subprime consumer and other mortgage products as well as updated mappings of risk exposures to historical price time series.
           Among their benefits, VaR models permit estimation of a portfolio s
aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets. However, VaR risk measures should be
interpreted carefully in light of the methodology s limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market movements;
changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a VaR model; VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions
that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for VaR estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions that are unusual relative to the
historical period used in estimating the VaR; and published VaR results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and
will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management oversight process. As explained
above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and Company levels.              VaR for Fiscal 2008   .     The table below presents the Company s Aggregate, Trading and
Non-trading VaR for each of the Company s primary market risk exposures at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, incorporating substantially all financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the Company s
trading businesses. This measure of VaR incorporates most of the Company s trading-related market risks. However, a small proportion of trading positions generating market risk is not included in VaR, and the modeling of the risk
characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different VaR results from those produced using more precise measures. For example, risks associated with residential
mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is difficult to capture precisely the relevant microeconomic factors that affect mortgage prices within a VaR context.            Aggregate VaR also incorporates certain non-trading risks, including (a) the
interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the Company and (c) corporate loan exposures that are awaiting distribution to
the market. Investments made by the Company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the VaR results presented below. Aggregate VaR also excludes certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets. The
credit spread risk generated by the Company s funding liabilities is not included in the Company s Aggregate VaR calculations. As of November 30, 2008, the notional amount of funding liabilities related to non-trading assets
(including premises, equipment and software, goodwill, deferred tax assets and intangible assets) was approximately $8.7 billion, with a duration of approximately 11 years. The credit spread risk sensitivity generated by the Company s funding
liabilities ( i.e. , those funding both trading and non-trading assets) corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $81 million for each +1 basis point (or 1/100   th    of a percentage point) widening in the Company s credit spread level as of November 30, 2008.         
   92     

Table of Contents  

   Since the VaR statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, VaR should not be
viewed as predictive of the Company s future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the Company s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts
indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.            The table below presents 95%/one-day VaR for each of the Company s primary risk
exposures and on an aggregate basis at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007.         

(1)  
  Diversification benefit equals the difference between Total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for
each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category.         
     The Company s Aggregate VaR at November 30, 2008 was $135 million compared with $83 million at November 30, 2007. The increase in Aggregate
VaR at year-end was driven primarily by a substantial increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR, partially offset by decreases in equity price, foreign exchange rate and commodity price VaR.            The Company s Trading VaR at November 30, 2008 was $104 million compared with $78
million at November 30, 2007. The increase in Trading VaR at year-end was driven primarily by a substantial increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR, partially offset by decreases in equity price, foreign exchange rate and commodity
price VaR.            Non-trading VaR at November 30, 2008 increased to $67 million
from $33 million at November 30, 2007 primarily due to an increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR.              The Company views average Trading VaR over a period of time as more representative of trends in the business than VaR at any single point in time. Table 2 below,
which presents the high, low and average 95%/one-day Trading VaR during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, represents substantially all of the Company s trading activities.   Certain market risks included in the year-end Aggregate VaR discussed
above are excluded from these measures   (   e.g.   , equity price risk in public company equity positions recorded as principal investments by the Company and certain funding liabilities related to trading positions).    
           Average Trading VaR for fiscal 2008 increased to $98 million from $87 million
in fiscal 2007, driven by increases in interest rate and credit spread VaR and foreign exchange rate VaR. Average Total VaR for fiscal 2008 increased to $115 million from $92 million in fiscal 2007, which was also driven by increases in interest
rate and credit spread VaR and foreign exchange rate VaR. The increase in interest rate and credit spread VaR  
       
   93     

Table of Contents  

was predominately driven by increased volatility in interest rate and credit spread sensitive products, especially securities that reference mortgage-backed
securities. The increase in foreign exchange rate VaR was driven by increased exposure to foreign currencies. Average Non-trading VaR for fiscal 2008 increased to $53 million from $22 million in fiscal 2007, driven primarily by increased exposures
associated with certain Non-trading lending positions.         
            VaR Statistics under Varying
Assumptions.               VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms
because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm s VaR model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio revaluations under the
simulated market conditions. These differences can result in materially different VaR estimates for similar portfolios. As a result, VaR statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm rather
than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms. Table 3 below presents the VaR statistics that would result if the Company were to adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95%
versus 99%) for the VaR statistic or a shorter historical time series (four years versus one year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations:         
          In addition, if the Company were to
report Trading VaR (using a four-year historical time series) with respect to a 10-day holding period, the Company s 95% and 99% Average Trading VaR for fiscal 2008 would have been $311 million and $556 million, respectively.         
   94     

Table of Contents  

     Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for Fiscal 2008.              As shown in Table 2 above, the Company s average 95%/one-day Trading VaR for fiscal
2008 was $98 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company s daily 95%/one-day Trading VaR for fiscal 2008. The most frequently occurring value was between $97 million and $103 million, while for approximately 92% of
trading days during the fiscal year, VaR ranged between $88 million and $109 million.           

            One method of evaluating the reasonableness of the
Company s VaR model as a measure of the Company s potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the VaR with actual trading revenue. Assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading losses
should exceed VaR during the fiscal year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the VaR model could be questioned. Accordingly, the Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR
model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. For days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR
model s accuracy relative to realized trading results.            The Company
incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day Trading VaR on 18 days during fiscal 2008. Most of these losses were incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, a period of unprecedented volatility across the equity, corporate credit
and securitized product markets ( e.g. , the fourth quarter provided the majority of the most volatile stock market days in the past 60 years and major indexes lost approximately 30% in the quarter). Since the Company bases its VaR calculations
on four years of equally weighted historical data, clustering of VaR exceptions should occur during periods of exceptionally high market turbulence. An examination of the 18 outliers incurred during the fiscal year revealed that these losses
occurred on days when markets experienced unusually high price volatility.            Over the longer term, trading losses are expected to exceed VaR an average of three times per quarter at the 95% confidence level. The Company bases its VaR calculations on the long-term (or unconditional) distribution and,  
       
   95     

Table of Contents  

therefore, evaluates its risk from a longer term perspective, which avoids understating risk during periods of relatively lower volatility in the market.
           The histogram below shows the distribution of daily net trading revenue during
fiscal 2008 for the Company s trading businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the trading businesses). During
fiscal 2008, the Company experienced net trading losses on 76 days. These loss days were driven predominately by increased market volatility realized during the second half of the fiscal year.           

             Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a
borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its financial obligations. The Company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. The Company incurs significant,  single-name  credit risk exposure through the
Institutional Securities business and to a lesser extent through its commercial lending activity in its Global Wealth Management Group. This type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis.
The Company also incurs  individual consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities.            The Company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of these
businesses generates unique credit risks that are appropriately managed discretely. The Institutional Credit Department ( Institutional Credit ) evaluates and monitors credit risk exposure for the Institutional Securities business segment.
Institutional Credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. Credit
risk exposure in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment is managed through various credit risk committees, whose membership includes Institutional Credit. The Global Wealth Management Group Risk Management Department is responsible for
monitoring, measuring and analyzing credit risk exposures, including margin loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions.         
   96     

Table of Contents  

     Institutional Securities Activities.                Corporate Lending.      In connection with certain of its Institutional Securities business activities, the
Company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. Such loans and commitments can generally be classified as either  event-driven  or  relationship-driven.              Event-driven  loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a
particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. The commitments associated with these  event-driven  activities may not be indicative of the Company s actual funding
requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. In addition, the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the Company s portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. The
borrower s ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions, among other factors. The borrowers of  event-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. The Company risk
manages its exposures in connection with  event-driven  transactions through various means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging.             Relationship-driven  loans and commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. The commitments associated with
 relationship-driven  activities may not be indicative of the Company s actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. The borrowers of
 relationship-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. The Company may hedge its exposures in connection with  relationship-driven  transactions.              Securitized Products.      The Company also extends loans and
lending commitments to clients that are secured by assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of
revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement and a decline in collateral value.              Other.      In addition to the activities performed by
Institutional Credit, there are credit risks managed by various business areas within Institutional Securities. For example, certain businesses with heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits. Certain risk
management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the Company s prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those areas in that they determine the appropriate
collateral level for each strategy or position. In addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function.              Derivative Contracts.      In the normal course of business,
the Company enters into a variety of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. The Company uses these instruments for trading and investment purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. These instruments
generally represent future commitments to swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. Many of these products have maturities that do
not extend beyond one year, although swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities.            The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The
Company s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly
transaction between market participants, and is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities, or
indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.       
  
   97     

Table of Contents  

     Analyzing Credit Risk.      Credit risk management takes place at the transaction,
counterparty and portfolio levels. In order to help protect the Company from losses resulting from these activities, Institutional Credit analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of the
Company s counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. Institutional Credit assigns obligor credit ratings to the Company s counterparties and borrowers. These credit
ratings are intended to assess a counterparty s probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. Credit ratings of  BB+  or below are considered
non-investment grade. Additionally, for lending transactions, Institutional Credit evaluates the relative position of the Company s particular obligation in the borrower s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as
collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction. The Company has credit guidelines that limit potential credit exposure to any one borrower or counterparty and to aggregates of borrowers or counterparties.
Institutional Credit administers these limits and monitors and reports credit exposure relative to limits.              Risk Mitigation.      The Company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to
mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments which may include single name, portfolio and
structured credit derivatives. Additionally, the Company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. In connection with its derivatives trading
activities, the Company may enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations, request additional
collateral when necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default.              Credit Exposure Corporate Lending.      The following table presents information about the Company s corporate funded loans and lending commitments as of November 30,
2008. The  total corporate lending exposure  column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. Funded loans represent loans that have been drawn by the borrower and that were outstanding as of November 30, 2008. Lending
commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of November 30, 2008 for both  relationship-driven  and  event-driven  lending transactions. As discussed above, these loans and lending
commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by
the Company.            At November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the
aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $8.3 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $9.5 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. At November 30, 2008 and
November 30, 2007, the aggregate amount of lending commitments outstanding was $42.4 billion and $70.2 billion, respectively. In connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments),
the Company had hedges (which include  single name,   sector  and  index  hedges) with a notional amount of $35.8 billion and $37.6 billion at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively. The
table below shows the Company s credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and commitments as of November 30, 2008. Since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect
the actual future cash funding requirements:         
   98     

Table of Contents  

    Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans          

(1)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Institutional Credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.     

(2)  
  Total corporate lending exposure includes both lending commitments and funded loans, which are at fair value. Amounts exclude approximately $36 billion of notional amount of hedges.
               Event-driven  Loans and Commitments.
            Included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table
above is  event-driven  exposure of $9.4 billion comprised of funded loans of $4.3 billion and lending commitments of $5.1 billion. Included in the $9.4 billion of  event-driven  exposure were $5.6 billion of loans and lending
commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed.            Activity
associated with the corporate  event-driven  lending exposure during fiscal 2008 was as follows (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Included in net reductions are sales of approximately $4.2 billion of highly leveraged loans, high yield notes, and lending commitments to affiliates of third party private equity
firms. The Company provided senior secured financing of approximately $3.0 billion to these firms. The Company s retained interest is the senior debt collateralized by the transferred assets. The transferred assets are no longer reflected in
the consolidated financial statements. The retained interests are classified as Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt in the consolidated statement of financial condition.           
   99     

Table of Contents  

     Credit Exposure Derivatives.      The table below presents a summary by counterparty
credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of OTC derivatives in a gain position at November 30, 2008. Fair value represents the risk reduction arising from master netting agreements, where applicable, and, in the final
column, net of collateral received (principally cash and U.S. government and agency securities):             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned(1)          

(1)  
  Fair values shown present the Company s exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include the effect of any related
hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Institutional Credit using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.     

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with the same
counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The following tables summarize the fair values of the Company s OTC derivative products
recorded in Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of November 30, 2008, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of related non-cash
collateral for financial instruments owned:             OTC Derivative
Products Financial Instruments Owned          

(1)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable balances with the
same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.           
   100     

Table of Contents  

    OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased(1)          

(1)  
  Since these amounts are liabilities of the Company, they do not result in credit exposures.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable balances with the
same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The Company s derivatives (both listed and OTC), on a net of counterparty and cash
collateral basis, as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product category:         
          Each category of derivative products
in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. Instruments in each category can be denominated in U.S. dollars or in one or more non-U.S. currencies.            The Company determines the fair values recorded in the above tables using various pricing
models. For a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies  in Part II,
Item 7 and Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.              Country Exposure.      As of November 30, 2008, primarily based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 10% of the Company s credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from
corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the Company s OTC derivatives contracts) was to emerging markets, and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 3.2% of the
Company s credit exposure. The Company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries that are  
       
   101     

Table of Contents  

not members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and includes as well the Czech Republic, Hungary, Korea, Mexico, Poland, the Slovak
Republic and Turkey but excludes countries rated AA and Aa2 or above by Standard   Poor s and Moody s Investors Service, respectively.            The following tables show the Company s percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and OTC derivative products by country
as of November 30, 2008:         
            Industry
Exposure.      As of November 30, 2008, the Company s material credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the
Company s OTC derivatives contracts) was to entities engaged in the following industries: financial institutions, insurance, utilities, sovereign, transportation, consumer-related entities and telecommunications.            The following tables show the Company s percentage of credit exposure from its primary
corporate loans and lending commitments and OTC derivative products by industry as of November 30, 2008:         

Industry    
      
   Corporate Lending Exposure   

Utilities-related   
      
  14  
  %   
 
    Financial institutions   
      
  10  

Consumer-related entities   
      
  10  

Telecommunications   
      
  9  

Technology-related industries   
      
  8  

General industrials   
      
  7  

Media-related entities   
      
  7  

Healthcare-related entities   
      
  5  

Energy-related entities   
      
  5  

Other   
      
  25  

Total   
      
  100  
  %   

102     

Table of Contents  

Industry    
      
   OTC Derivative Products   

Financial institutions   
      
  43  
  %   
 
    Sovereign entities   
      
  13  

Insurance   
      
  12  

Transportation-related entities   
      
  10  

Utilities-related entities   
      
  5  

Other   
      
  17  

Total   
      
  100  
  %   

Global Wealth Management Group
Activities.                Margin
Lending.      Customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. The Company monitors required margin levels and established
credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the
degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. Additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or
restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of
securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. At November 30, 2008, there were approximately $4.5 billion of customer margin loans outstanding.              Non-purpose Securities-Based Lending.      Non-purpose
securities-based lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. The
Company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or
reduce debt positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall
evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, possible hedging strategies. Underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of
the proposed collateral positions, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations.              Commercial Lending.      Global Wealth Management Group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and
their small and medium-size domestic businesses through Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services, Inc. ( CFS ). CFS  suite of products includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit, standby letters of
credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. Clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements to CFS  centralized credit processing platform. CFS  underwriting
professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. For standard transactions, credit requests are approved via
signature of independent credit officers, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. The facility is risk rated and upon credit approval
is moved to the general portfolio where it is monitored periodically through account management, covenants compliance certificates, and spot and cycle audits.         
    Consumer Lending Activities.              With respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including home equity lines of credit ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process is adopted within a
framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral  
       
   103     

Table of Contents  

valuation. The Company s underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which
includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g.,  FICO scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. Loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property
appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. As part of the mortgage lending business strategy, almost all loans are sold in the secondary market through securitizations and whole loan sales, while
almost all servicing rights are retained. These sales and securitizations pass the risk of credit loss onto the purchaser/investor.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events
( e.g.,  external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). The Company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities ( e.g., 
sales and trading) and support functions ( e.g.,  information technology and facilities management). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal Risk.             The goal of the Company s operational risk management framework is to establish
firm-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management. Operational risk policies are designed to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and
reputational risks. The framework continually responds to changing regulatory and business environment landscape. As a foundation for the Basel II Advanced Measurement Approach, an enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the
calculation of capital related to operational risk. This model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk and control self-assessments and scenario analysis.
           The Operational Risk Oversight Committee, a Firm-wide committee, is chaired by
the Company s Chief Risk Officer, and assists the Firm Risk Committee in executing its responsibilities for oversight of operational risk, including evaluating assessments of risk exposure, reviewing the Company s significant operational
risk exposures, recommending and overseeing firmwide remediation efforts, review and evaluation of current event risk issues, and establishing firmwide operational risk program standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management.
           The Company s Operational Risk Manager ( ORM ) oversees,
monitors, measures, analyzes and reports on operational risk across the Company. The ORM is independent of the business segments and is supported by the Firm-wide Operational Risk Department ( ORD ). The ORM is also responsible for
facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the Firm-wide operational risk program. The ORD works with the business segments and Control Groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational
risk within each area and across the Company, globally.            Primary responsibility
for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the Control Groups, and the business managers therein. The business managers, generally, maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report
operational risk. As new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. Each business segment has a designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator
regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports with senior management within each business. Each Control Group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or
reports with senior management. Oversight of business segment operational risk is provided by business segment risk committees, the Operational Risk Oversight Committee, senior management through the Firm Risk Committee.            Business Continuity Management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that ensures a
recovery strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other  
       
   104     

Table of Contents  

business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a Company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into
the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of the Company s disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business segment recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing
management, analysis, training and testing.            The Company maintains an
information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. Information security procedures are designed to protect the Company s information assets against unauthorized
disclosure, modification or misuse. These procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application system entitlement; data protection; internet and intranet access, communications and usage; and mobile and portable information usage. The
Company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computer and other assets from unauthorized access.            The Company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the Company s ongoing operations. These may include, for example, outsourced processing and
support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and quality reviews,
and ongoing monitoring of the vendors  performance. It is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future.             Legal Risk.             Legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s
performance obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I,
Item 1). The Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The Company, principally through the
Legal and Compliance Division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the Company s policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed globally. In connection with its businesses, the Company has
and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and
securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of
counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. The legal and regulatory
focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the Company.         
   105     

Table of Contents  

      Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan
Stanley:            We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of
financial condition of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of November 30, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in shareholders  equity for
each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2008. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.            We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.            In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries as of
November 30, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.            As discussed in Note 2 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.             As discussed in Note 2 and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).             Also, as discussed in Note 2 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB statement
No. 109.             We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated January 28, 2009, expresses an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.             /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP       New York, New York      January 28, 2009         
   106   

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   107     

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (Continued)        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   108     

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Income        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   109     

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income        (dollars in millions)          

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   110     

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (dollars in millions)    
     
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH
FLOW INFORMATION       Cash payments for interest were $35,587 million, $59,955 million and $39,667 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006,
respectively.      Cash payments for income taxes were $1,406 million, $3,404 million and $3,115 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006,
respectively.            See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        
   111     

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity
       (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   112     

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation.               The Company.      Morgan Stanley (the  Company )
is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management.            A summary of the activities of each of the Company s business segments is as follows:
            Institutional Securities  includes capital raising;
financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related
products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; and investment activities.             Global Wealth Management Group  provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth
planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative
investments, which includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset
Management also engages in investment activities.              Financial Holding
Company.             Global market and economic conditions were disrupted and
volatile in fiscal 2008, and in the fourth quarter, volatility reached unprecedented levels. The Company s cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
On September 21, 2008, the Company obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ) to become a bank holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley
Bank (Utah), from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) authorized Morgan Stanley Bank to commence business as a national bank, operating as Morgan
Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrent with this conversion, the Company became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). As a result of becoming a financial holding company, the Company
gained additional access to various government lending programs and facilities including the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ( CPFF ), the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ), the Term Securities Lending Facility
( TSLF ) and the Primary Dealer Credit Facility ( PDCF ).            The Company has become subject to the supervision and regulation of the Fed and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. has become subject to the consolidated supervision and regulation of the OCC. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC ) will continue to insure deposits at Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust to the maximum extent allowed by the FDIC. The Company does not expect significant adverse tax or accounting effects from this status.
             Change in Fiscal Year End.              On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the
Company s fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company will have a December 2008 fiscal month
transition period, the results of which will be separately reported in the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2009 and in the Company s Annual Report of Form 10-K for the calendar year
ending December 31, 2009.         
   113     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Discontinued Operations.         
      Discover.     On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the  Discover Spin-off ) of its business
segment Discover Financial Services ( DFS ). The results of DFS are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. Fiscal 2008 included costs related to a legal settlement between
DFS, VISA and MasterCard.             Quilter Holdings
Ltd.     The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. were formerly included in the
Global Wealth Management Group business segment.             Aircraft
Leasing.     The results of the Company s former aircraft leasing business are reported as discontinued operations through its sale on March 24, 2006. The results of the Company s aircraft leasing business were
formerly included in the Institutional Securities business segment.            See Note
19 for additional information on discontinued operations.              Basis of
Financial Information.      The consolidated financial statements for the 12 months ended November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ), November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ) and November 30, 2006
( fiscal 2006 ) are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, the valuation of
goodwill, the outcome of litigation, tax matters and other matters that affect the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.            All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.              Consolidation  .    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries, other entities in which the Company has a controlling
financial interest and certain variable interest entities ( VIEs ).            For entities where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities independently and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks of the entity and have the right to
make decisions about the entity s activities, the Company consolidates those entities it controls through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For entities that do not meet these criteria, commonly known as VIEs, the Company consolidates
those entities where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of such entities.            Notwithstanding the above, certain securitization vehicles, commonly known as qualifying
special purpose entities ( QSPEs ), are not consolidated by the Company if they meet certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they may hold, the types of sales they may engage in and the range of discretion they may
exercise in connection with the assets they hold (see Note 5).            For investments
in entities in which the Company does not have a controlling financial interest but has significant influence over operating and financial decisions, the Company generally applies the equity method of accounting with net gains and losses recorded
within Other revenues, except in instances where the Company has elected to measure certain eligible investments at fair value in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 159,  The Fair Value
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 159 ) (see Note 2).            Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.       

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company s U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated
( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSJS ) and Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.              Income Statement Presentation  .    The Company, through its
subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. In connection with the delivery of
the various products and services to clients, the Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such, when assessing the performance of its businesses, the Company considers its principal trading, investment banking,
commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity for each of the Company s separate businesses.       
      2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.        
       Revenue Recognition.               Investment Banking.     Underwriting revenues and advisory fees from mergers, acquisitions and restructuring transactions are recorded when
services for the transactions are determined to be completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction, are
deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenue. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded within
Non-interest expenses.             Commissions.     The Company
generates commissions from executing and clearing customer transactions on stock, options and futures markets. Commission revenues are recognized in the accounts on trade date.             Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.     Asset management, distribution and administration fees
are recognized over the relevant contract period. Sales commissions paid by the Company in connection with the sale of certain classes of shares of its open-end mutual fund products are accounted for as deferred commission assets. The Company
periodically tests the deferred commission assets for recoverability based on cash flows expected to be received in future periods. In certain management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance-based fees (also referred to
as incentive fees) when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such arrangements, performance fee revenue is accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account/fund
performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated in the investment management agreement. Performance-based fees are recorded within Principal transactions investment revenues or Asset management, distribution and administration fees
depending on the nature of the arrangement.              Financial Instruments and
Fair Value.              A significant portion of the Company s financial
instruments is carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. A description of the Company s policies regarding fair value measurement and its application to these financial instruments follows.   
         Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.     All of the
instruments within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, are measured at fair value, either through the fair value option election (discussed below) or as required by other accounting
pronouncements. These instruments primarily represent the Company s trading and investment activities and include both cash and derivative products. In addition, Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities
received as collateral are measured at fair value as required by other accounting pronouncements. Additionally, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), certain Deposits, Other secured financings and
certain Long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes and certain junior subordinated debentures) are measured at fair value through the fair value option election.       

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Gains and losses on all of these instruments carried at fair value are reflected in Principal
transactions trading revenues, Principal transactions investment revenues or Investment banking revenues in the consolidated statements of income, except for derivatives accounted for as hedges (see  Hedge Accounting  section
herein). Interest income and expense and dividend income are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. When interest and dividends are included as a component
of the instruments  fair value, interest and dividends are included within Principal transactions trading revenues or Principal transactions investment revenues. Otherwise, they are included within Interest
and dividend income or Interest expense. The fair value of over-the-counter ( OTC ) financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, is presented in the accompanying consolidated
statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. Additionally, the Company nets fair value of cash collateral paid or received against fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the
same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement.             Fair Value
Option .    The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 159 effective December 1, 2006. SFAS No. 159 provides entities the option to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. SFAS No. 159 permits the irrevocable fair value option election on an instrument-by-instrument basis at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that gives rise
to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Company applies the fair value option for certain eligible instruments, including certain loans and lending commitments, certain equity method investments, certain structured notes, certain
junior subordinated debentures, certain time deposits and Other secured financings.             Fair Value Measurement Definition and Hierarchy .    The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS No. 157 ), effective December 1,
2006. Under this standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date.            In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation
approaches. SFAS No. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when
available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the
Company s assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the
observability of inputs as follows:         

Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation
adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of
judgment.            

Level 2 Valuations based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or
indirectly.            

Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.               The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a
wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, the liquidity of markets and other characteristics particular to the transaction. To the extent that
valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is greatest for instruments
categorized in Level 3.            The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as
of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, such as those experienced in fiscal 2008, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could
cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3 (see Note 3). In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could lead to further declines in the valuation of many instruments.            In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels
of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls in its entirety is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to
the fair value measurement in its entirety.             Valuation
Techniques .    Many cash and OTC contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that a party is willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest
price that a party is willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the Company does not require that the fair value estimate always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask range. The
Company s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the Company s best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within
the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.            Fair
value for many cash and OTC contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate
yield curves, credit curves, correlation, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the impact of the Company s own credit spreads is also considered when measuring the
fair value of liabilities, including OTC derivative contracts. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors such as liquidity risk (bid-ask adjustments), credit quality and model uncertainty. These adjustments are
subject to judgment, are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available. The Company generally subjects all valuations and models to a review process initially and on a periodic basis thereafter.            Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant
rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company s own assumptions are set to reflect those that the Company believes market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability at the measurement date.            See Note 3 for a description of valuation
techniques applied to the major categories of financial instruments measured at fair value.             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.     Certain of the Company s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets include
certain goodwill, certain intangible assets, certain premises and equipment, certain equity method investments, certain loans and certain real estate investments that were impaired during fiscal 2008, primarily in the fourth quarter, and written
down to their fair value. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could result in additional impairment charges in future periods.            For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as
described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs, by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and
non-recurring basis, see Note 3.              Hedge Accounting.     
        The Company applies hedge accounting for hedges involving various derivative financial
instruments and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt used to hedge interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value. These derivative financial instruments are included within Financial
instruments owned Derivative and other contracts or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased Derivative and other contracts in the consolidated statements of financial condition.            The Company s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes as one of the
following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges), hedges of the variability of future cash flows from floating rate assets and liabilities due to the risk being
hedged (cash flow hedges) and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).            For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other
procedures to ensure the ongoing validity of the hedges are performed at least monthly. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness on the consolidated statements of income, primarily related to fair value hedges, was a gain of $17.3 million during fiscal
2008 and a gain of $132.3 million during fiscal 2007. The amount excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness was immaterial.             Fair Value Hedges Interest Rate Risk .    The Company s designated fair value hedges consisted primarily of interest rate swaps
designated as fair value hedges of changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate borrowings, including both certificates of deposit and senior long-term borrowings. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company began using regression
analysis to perform an ongoing prospective and retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships ( i.e. , the Company applied the  long-haul  method of hedge accounting). A hedging relationship is deemed
effective if the fair values of the hedging instrument (derivative) and the hedged item (debt liability) change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%. The Company considers the impact of valuation adjustments related to the Company s own
credit spreads and counterparty credit spreads to determine whether they are material to the fair value of the individual derivatives designated in hedging relationships and whether they would cause the hedging relationship to be ineffective.
           Previously, for these hedges, the Company ensured that the terms of the
hedging instruments and hedged items matched and that other accounting criteria were met so that the hedges were assumed to have no ineffectiveness ( i.e. , the Company applied the  shortcut  method of hedge accounting). The Company
also used interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the benchmark interest rate risk of host contracts of equity-linked notes that contained embedded derivatives. For these hedging relationships, regression analysis was used for the prospective
and retrospective assessments of hedge effectiveness.            For qualifying fair
value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in
Interest expense. When a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the remaining life of the liability using the effective interest method.             Fair Value Hedges Credit Risk .    Until the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2007, the Company had designated a portion of a credit derivative embedded in a non-recourse structured note liability as a fair value hedge of the credit risk arising from a loan receivable to which the structured note liability was
specifically linked. Regression analysis was used to perform prospective and retrospective assessments of hedge effectiveness for this hedge relationship.  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 The changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged item provided offset of one another and, together with any
resulting ineffectiveness, were recorded in Principal transactions trading revenues. This hedge was terminated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 upon derecognition of both the hedging instrument and the hedged item.             Cash Flow Hedges .    The Company applies cash flow hedge
accounting to interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the variability of future cash flows from floating rate liabilities due to the benchmark interest rate. The Company uses regression analysis to perform an ongoing prospective and
retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships. Changes in fair value of these interest rate swaps are recorded to  Net change in cash flow hedges  as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) in Shareholders  equity, net of tax effects, to the extent they are effective. Amounts recorded to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are then reclassified to Interest expense as interest on the hedged borrowings is
recognized. Any ineffective portion of the change in fair value of these instruments is recorded to Interest expense.            Before the sale of the aircraft leasing business in 2006 (see Note 19), the Company applied hedge accounting to interest rate swaps used to hedge variable rate long-term
borrowings associated with this business. Changes in the fair value of the swaps were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders  equity, net of tax effects, and then reclassified to Interest expense as interest
on the hedged borrowings was recognized.            In connection with the sale of the
aircraft leasing business, the Company de-designated the interest rate swaps associated with this business effective August 31, 2005 and no longer accounts for them as cash flow hedges. Amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
related to those interest rate swaps continue to be reclassified to Interest expense since the related borrowings remain outstanding. The Company estimates that approximately $21 million of the unrealized loss recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as of November 30, 2008 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.             Net Investment Hedges .    The Company utilizes forward foreign exchange contracts and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt to manage the currency
exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations. No hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings since the notional amounts of the hedging instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged,
and, where forward contracts are used, the currencies being exchanged are the functional currencies of the parent and investee; where debt instruments are used as hedges, they are denominated in the functional currency of the investee. The gain or
loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders  equity, net of tax effects. The forward points on the hedging
instruments are recorded in Interest and dividend revenues.              Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows.              For purposes of the consolidated statements
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks, which are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and readily convertible to known amounts of
cash. The Company s significant non-cash activities include assumed liabilities, in connection with business acquisitions, of $77 million, $7,704 million and $1,377 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. At
May 31, 2008, the Company consolidated Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership ( Crescent ) assets and liabilities of approximately $4.7 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively. In connection with the Discover Spin-off, net
assets of approximately $5,558 million were distributed to shareholders in fiscal 2007 (see Note 19). At November 30, 2007, $8,086 million of securities were transferred from Securities available for sale to Financial instruments owned.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Securitization Activities.              The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, U.S.
agency collateralized mortgage obligations and other types of financial assets (see Note 5). Generally, such transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when the Company has relinquished control over the transferred assets. The gain or
loss on sale of such financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale.
Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are accounted for as secured borrowings.              Premises, Equipment and Software Costs.              Premises and
equipment consist of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, computer and communications equipment, power plants, tugs, barges, terminals, pipelines and software (externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises and
equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows:
buildings 39 years; furniture and fixtures 7 years; computer and communications equipment 3 to 8 years; power plants 15 years; tugs and barges 15 years; and terminals and pipelines 3 to 25 years. Estimated useful lives
for software costs are generally 3 to 5 years.            Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of the lease, but generally not exceeding: 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.              Income Taxes.              Income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates.              Earnings per Common Share.              Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Income available to common shareholders represents net income reduced by preferred stock dividends, amortization of discounts on preferred stock issued and allocations of earnings to participating securities. Common
shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock unit awards where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive
securities, which includes the dilutive effect of the common stock deliverable pursuant to stock options and restricted stock units for which future service is required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.            Effective October 13, 2008, as a result of the adjustment to Equity Units sold to a
wholly owned subsidiary of China Investment Corporation (see Note 11), the Company calculates earnings per common share in accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) No. 03-6,  Participating Securities and the
Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128,  Earnings per Share   ( EITF 03-6 ). EITF 03-6 addresses the computation of earnings per share by companies that have issued securities other than common stock that
contractually entitle the holder to participate in dividends and earnings of the company along with common shareholders according to a predetermined formula. The two-class method requires the Company to present earnings per common share  as if
 all of the earnings for the period are distributed to common shareholders and any participating securities, regardless of whether any actual dividends or distributions are made. The amount allocated to the participating  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 securities is based upon the contractual terms of their respective contract and is reflected as a reduction to  Net income applicable to common
shareholders  for both the Company s basic and diluted earnings per share calculations (see Note 12). The two-class method does not impact the Company s actual net income or other financial results. Unless contractually required by
the terms of the participating securities, no losses are allocated to participating securities for purposes of the earnings per share calculation under the two-class method.              Stock-Based Compensation.              The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123R  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS
No. 123R revised the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payment liabilities, forfeitures and modifications of stock-based awards and clarified guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as
equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to service periods.            SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company determines the fair value of
restricted stock units based on the number of units granted and the grant date fair value of the Company s common stock, measured as the volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using the
Black-Scholes valuation model and the single grant life method. Under the single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted-average expected option life. Compensation expense for stock-based payment
awards is recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) allows employees to purchase shares of the Company s common stock at a 15% discount from market value. The Company
expenses the 15% discount associated with the ESPP.            For stock-based awards
issued prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company s accounting policy for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees is to recognize compensation cost over the service period specified in the award terms. The Company
accelerates any unrecognized compensation cost for such awards if and when a retirement-eligible employee leaves the Company.            For fiscal 2005 year-end stock-based compensation awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in December 2005, the Company recognized the compensation cost
for such awards at the date of grant instead of over the service period specified in the award terms. As a result, the Company recorded non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $260 million in fiscal 2006 for stock-based awards
granted to retirement-eligible employees as part of the fiscal 2005 year-end award process and for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, including new hires, in fiscal 2006. These incremental expenses were included within Compensation and
benefits expense and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($190 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($50 million) and Asset Management ($20 million) business segments.            Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated year-end equity awards that are granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of the following year. Effective December 1,
2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year. As such, the Company accrued the estimated cost of fiscal 2008 year-end awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the 2008 fiscal
year, rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2008). The Company believes that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the
compensation is earned.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Translation of Foreign Currencies.             Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and income
statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the year. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of Shareholders  equity. Gains or losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are included in net income.              Goodwill and Intangible Assets.             Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized and are reviewed annually
(or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives and reviewed for impairment.       
       Securities Available for Sale.              Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company purchased certain debt securities that were classified as  securities available for sale  in
accordance with SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  ( SFAS No. 115 ). During fiscal 2007, $4.3 billion of securities available for sale were sold for a loss of $74 million.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined that it no longer intended to hold the remaining securities in this portfolio until the fair value of the securities recovered to a level that exceeded their initial cost. Accordingly, the
Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on these securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified $8.1 billion
to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective November 30, 2007. This other-than-temporary impairment charge represented all unrealized losses for these securities.              Deferred Compensation Arrangements.              Rabbi Trust.     The Company maintains trusts, commonly referred
to as rabbi trusts, in connection with certain deferred compensation plans. Assets of rabbi trusts are consolidated, and the value of the Company s stock held in rabbi trusts is classified in Shareholders  equity and generally accounted
for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in Employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has issued to its rabbi trusts are recorded in Common stock issued to
employee trust. Both Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust are components of Shareholders  equity. The Company recognizes the original amount of deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date
of grant see Note 15) as the basis for recognition in Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to employees are not recognized as the Company s deferred compensation plans do
not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company s common stock.             Deferred Compensation Plans.     The Company also maintains various deferred compensation plans for the benefit of certain employees that
provide a return to the participating employees based upon the performance of various referenced investments. The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in such referenced investments related to its obligations to perform under the deferred
compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded primarily in Principal transactions Investments. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and
benefits.              Accounting Developments.               Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.     In July 2006, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s
financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48 on December 1, 2007, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $92
million as a decrease to the opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2007 (see Note 17).             Employee Benefit Plans.     In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ). In fiscal 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158 s requirement to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit and
postretirement plans as an asset or liability. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $13 million ($21 million pre-tax) to Shareholders  equity upon early adoption of SFAS
No. 158 s other requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date (see Note 16).             Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts.     In April 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FIN 39-1,  Amendment of FASB Interpretation
No. 39 , ( FSP FIN 39-1 ). FSP FIN 39-1 amends certain provisions of FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts,  and permits companies to offset fair value amounts recognized for cash collateral
receivables or payables against fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. In accordance with the provisions of FSP FIN 39-1, the Company offset cash
collateral receivables and payables against net derivative positions as of November 30, 2008. The adoption of FSP FIN 39-1 on December 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.
            Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.     In June
2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards  ( EITF No. 06-11 ). EITF No. 06-11 requires that the tax benefit related to
dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units that are expected to vest be recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company currently accounts for this tax benefit as a reduction to its income tax provision. EITF
No. 06-11 is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007 and interim periods within these years. The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF No. 06-11 to
have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Business Combinations .    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS No. 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business
combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction (whether a full or partial acquisition); establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and
liabilities assumed; requires expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the
business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) applies to all transactions or other events in which the Company obtains control of one or more businesses, including those sometimes referred to as  true mergers  or  mergers of equals 
and combinations achieved without the transfer of consideration, for example, by contract alone or through the lapse of minority veto rights. SFAS No. 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or
after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008.             Noncontrolling Interests .    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51  ( SFAS No. 160 ). SFAS No. 160 requires reporting entities to present noncontrolling (minority) interests as equity (as opposed to  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 as a liability or mezzanine equity) and provides guidance on the accounting for transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests. SFAS
No. 160 applies prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The presentation and disclosure requirements, however, are to be applied retrospectively. The Company
is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting SFAS No. 160.             Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions.     In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing
Transactions  ( FSP FAS No. 140-3 ). The objective of FSP FAS No. 140-3 is to provide implementation guidance on accounting for a transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing. Under the guidance in FSP FAS No. 140-3,
there is a presumption that an initial transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing are considered part of the same arrangement ( i.e.,  a linked transaction) for purposes of evaluation under SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 140 ). If certain criteria are met, however, the initial transfer and repurchase financing shall not be evaluated as a linked transaction
and shall be evaluated separately under SFAS No. 140. FSP FAS No. 140-3 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the
adoption of FSP FAS 140-3 to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities .    In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  ( SFAS No. 161 ). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities , and requires entities to provide enhanced qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair values and amounts of gains and losses on derivative contracts, and
disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008.             Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.     In April
2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets  ( FSP FAS 142-3 ). FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
( SFAS No. 142 ) for an entity to consider, when determining the useful life of an acquired intangible asset, whether the intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and
conditions associated with the intangible asset. FSP FAS 142-3 replaces the previous useful-life assessment criteria with a requirement that an entity shall consider its own experience in renewing similar arrangements. If the entity has no relevant
experience, it would consider market participant assumptions regarding renewal. FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the
adoption of FSP FAS 142-3 to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Earnings Per Share.     In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating
Securities  ( FSP EITF 03-6-1 ). FSP EITF 03-6-1 addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in
computing earnings per share under the two-class method as described in SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  Under the guidance in FSP EITF 03-6-1, unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. All prior-period earnings per share data presented shall be adjusted retrospectively. The Company currently expects the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 to reduce basic
earnings per share by $0.09, $0.16 and $0.42 for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006,  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 respectively, and to reduce diluted earnings per share by $0.06, $0.08 and $0.22 for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006,
respectively.            Instruments Indexed to an Entity s Own
Stock.     In June 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF on Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  ( EITF
No. 07-5 ). EITF No. 07-5 provides guidance for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock. EITF No. 07-5 applies to any freestanding financial
instrument or embedded feature that has all of the characteristics of a derivative or freestanding instrument that is potentially settled in an entity s own stock (with the exception of share-based payment awards within the scope of
SFAS 123(R)). To meet the definition of  indexed to own stock,  an instrument s contingent exercise provisions must not be based on (a) an observable market, other than the market for the issuer s stock (if applicable),
or (b) an observable index, other than an index calculated or measured solely by reference to the issuer s own operations, and the variables that could affect the settlement amount must be inputs to the fair value of a
 fixed-for-fixed  forward or option on equity shares. EITF No. 07-5 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF
No. 07-5 to change the classification or measurement of its financial instruments.             Fair Value Measurements.     On October 10, 2008 the FASB issued FSP FAS 157 3,  Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active 
(FSP FAS 157 3). FSP FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial instrument when the market
for that financial asset is not active. The FSP was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. The adoption of FSP FAS 157 3 did not have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.             Transfers of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.     In September 2008, the FASB issued for comment revisions to SFAS No. 140 and FASB Interpretation No. 46, as revised
( FIN 46R ),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  The changes proposed include a removal of the scope exemption from FIN 46R for QSPEs, a revision of the current risks and rewards-based FIN 46R consolidation model to a
qualitative model based on control and a requirement that consolidation of VIEs be reevaluated on an ongoing basis. Although the revised standards have not yet been finalized, these changes may have a significant impact on the Company s
consolidated financial statements as the Company may be required to consolidate QSPEs to which the Company has previously sold assets. In addition, the Company may also be required to consolidate other VIEs that are not currently consolidated
based on an analysis under the current FIN 46R consolidation model. The proposed revisions would be effective for fiscal years that begin after November 15, 2009.             Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets.     In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,
 Employer s Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). FSP FAS 132(R)-1 amends SFAS No. 132 (Revised 2003),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits ,
to provide guidance on an employer s disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The disclosures about plan assets required by this FSP shall be provided for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2009.             Disclosures about Transfers of Financial
Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities .    In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and
Interests in Variable Interest Entities  ( FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 ). FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 amends FAS 140 and FIN 46(R) to require additional disclosures regarding transfers of financial assets and interest in
variable interest entities. FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 is effective for interim or annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    3.    Fair Value Disclosures.               Fair Value Measurements.              A description of the valuation techniques applied to the Company s major categories of
assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis follows.             Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased              U.S. Government and Agency Securities         

U.S. Government Securities .    U.S. government securities are valued using quoted market prices. Valuation adjustments are not applied.
Accordingly, U.S. government securities are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.            

U.S. Agency Securities .    U.S. agency securities are comprised of two main categories consisting of agency issued debt and mortgage
pass-throughs. Non-callable agency issued debt securities are generally valued using quoted market prices. Callable agency issued debt securities are valued by benchmarking model-derived prices to quoted market prices and trade data for identical or
comparable securities. Mortgage pass-throughs include To-be-announced ( TBA ) securities and mortgage pass-through certificates. TBA securities are generally valued using quoted market prices or are benchmarked thereto. Fair value of
mortgage pass-through certificates are model driven with respect to the comparable TBA security. Actively traded non-callable agency issued debt securities and TBA securities are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Callable agency
issued debt securities and mortgage pass-through certificates are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Other Sovereign Government Obligations         

Foreign sovereign government obligations are valued using quoted prices in active markets when available. To the extent quoted prices are not available, fair value
is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and seniority. These bonds are
generally categorized in Levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Corporate and Other Debt          

Corporate Bonds .    The fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations (where
observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments. The spread data used are for the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data does not reference the issuer, then
data that reference a comparable issuer are used. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery rates based on
collateral values as significant inputs. Corporate bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where prices, spreads or any of the other aforementioned key inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in
Level 3 of the hierarchy.            

Corporate Loans and Lending Commitments .    The fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently executed transactions, market
price quotations (where observable) and market observable loan credit default swap spread levels adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments, along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where
such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The fair value of contingent corporate lending commitments is estimated by using executed  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of these
commitments also takes into account certain fee income. Corporate loans and lending commitments are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable, they are
categorized in Level 3 of the hierarchy.            

Municipal Bonds .    The fair value of municipal bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations and
pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Mortgage Loans .    Mortgage loans are valued using prices based on trade data for identical or comparable instruments. Where observable
prices are not available, the Company estimates fair value based on benchmarking to prices and rates observed in the primary market for similar loan or borrower types, or based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best
estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. Due to the subjectivity involved in comparability assessment related to mortgage
loan vintage, geographical concentration, prepayment speed and projected loss assumptions, the majority of loans are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities ( CMBS ) and Asset-Backed Securities ( ABS ) .    CMBS and ABS may be valued
based on external price or spread data. When position-specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable bonds. Valuation levels of ABS and CMBS indices are used as an additional data point for
benchmarking purposes or to price outright index positions. CMBS and ABS are categorized in Level 3 if external prices or spread inputs are unobservable or if the comparability assessment involves significant subjectivity related to property type
differences, cash flows, performance and other inputs; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ) .    The Company primarily holds investments in Student Loan Auction Rate Securities
( SLARS ) and Municipal Auction Rate Securities ( MARS ) with interest rates that are reset through periodic auctions. SLARS are ABS backed by pools of student loans. MARS are municipal bonds often backed by
municipal bond insurance. ARS were historically traded and valued at par due to the auction mechanism and generally liquid markets that existed. Beginning in fiscal 2008, uncertainties in the credit markets have resulted in auctions failing for
certain types of ARS. Once the auctions failed, ARS could no longer be valued using observations of auction market prices. Accordingly, the fair value of ARS is determined using independent external market data where available and an internally
developed methodology to discount for the lack of liquidity and non-performance risk in the current market environment.               The key drivers that impact the valuation of SLARS are the amount of leverage in each structure, credit rating and
liquidity considerations.            The key drivers that
impact the valuation of MARS are independent external market data, quality of underlying issuers and evidence of issuer calls. To the extent the valuation technique relies on observable external data, ARS are
classified in Level  otherwise, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.         

Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions .    Fair value for retained interests in securitized financial assets (in the
form of one or more tranches of the securitization) is determined using observable prices or, in cases where observable prices are not available for certain retained interests, the Company estimates fair value
based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. When observable prices are available, retained interests are categorized in Level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy. In the absence of observable prices, retained interests are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.                Corporate Equities          

Exchange-Traded Equity Securities .    Exchange-traded equity securities are generally valued based on quoted prices from the exchange. To
the extent these securities are actively traded, valuation adjustments are not applied and they are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.          
      Derivative and Other Contracts          

Listed Derivative Contracts .    Listed derivatives that are actively traded are valued based on quoted prices from the exchange and are
categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Listed derivatives that are not actively traded are valued using the same approaches as those applied to OTC derivatives; they are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

OTC Derivative Contracts .    OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign
currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.               Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques,
including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black- Scholes option-pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate
significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company
are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.   
        Other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex products
or products that have become illiquid, require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes derivative interests in
certain mortgage-related collateralized debt obligation ( CDO ) securities, mortgage-related credit default swaps, basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. These
instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            Derivative interests in mortgage-related CDOs, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of
the market for similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary market activity in the cash CDO and synthetic CDO markets. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing,
behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures ( e.g. , non-amortizing reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external
observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment.            Mortgage-related credit default swaps are valued based on data from comparable credit instruments in the cash market and trades in comparable swaps as
benchmarks, as prices and spreads for the specific credits subject to valuation tend to be of limited observability.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   For basket credit default swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation between reference credits
is a significant input into the pricing model, in addition to several other more observable inputs such as credit spread, interest rates and recovery rates. As the correlation input is unobservable for each specific swap, it is benchmarked to
standardized proxy baskets for which external correlation data are available.            The Company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier spread curves,
volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs.
Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input values. Commodity derivatives are generally
categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.       
      Investments          

Investments in Private Equity and Real Estate .    The Company s investments in private equity and real estate take the form of
direct private equity investments and investments in private equity and real estate funds. Initially, the transaction price is generally considered by the Company as the exit price and is the Company s best estimate of fair value. Thereafter,
valuation is based on an assessment of each underlying investment, incorporating valuations that consider the evaluation of financing and sale transactions with third parties, expected cash flows and market-based information, including comparable
company transactions, performance multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. These nonpublic investments are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently, and, therefore, the fair value is
unobservable.                Physical Commodities 

The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products, natural gas, base and precious metals and agricultural products. Fair
value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Deposits          

Time Deposits.     The fair value of certificates of deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. These deposits are categorized in
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Commercial Paper and
Other Short-term Borrowings/Long-Term Borrowings          

Structured Notes .    The Company issues structured notes that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models described above for the derivative and debt features of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs referencing identical or
comparable securities, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates. The impact of the Company s own credit spreads is also included based on the Company s observed
secondary bond market spreads. Most structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following fair value hierarchy tables present information about the Company s assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007. See Note 2 for a discussion of the Company s policies regarding this fair value hierarchy.             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis as of November 30,
2008          

(1)  
  For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in the column
titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level.     

(2)  
  Amount represents mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) accounted for at fair value (see Note 5).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis as of November 30, 2007          

(1)  
  For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in the column
titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level.     

(2)  
  Amount represents MSRs accounted for at fair value (see Note 5).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present additional information about Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains or (losses) for assets and liabilities
within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not reflect the related realized and unrealized gains or (losses) on hedging instruments that have been classified by the Company within the Level 1 and/or Level 2
categories. Additionally, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions that the Company has classified within the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains or
(losses) during the period for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below may include changes in fair value during the period that were attributable to both observable ( e.g. ,
changes in market interest rates) and unobservable ( e.g. , changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities) inputs.            The following tables reflect gains and losses for all assets and liabilities categorized as Level 3 as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively.
For assets and liabilities that were transferred into Level 3 during the period, gains and losses are presented as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred into Level 3 as of the beginning of the period; similarly, for assets and
liabilities that were transferred out of Level 3 during the period, gains and losses are presented as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred out as of the beginning of the period.             Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for
the Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2008          

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $(3,324) million
related to Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments .     

(2)  
  Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for fiscal 2008 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at November 30, 2008.     

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivative and
other contracts.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt .    The net losses in
Level 3 Corporate and other debt were primarily driven by certain asset-backed securities, including residential and commercial mortgage loans, certain collateralized debt obligations (including collateralized bond obligations and
collateralized loan obligations) certain commercial whole loans and by certain corporate loans and lending commitments.            During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $17.3 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily
related to residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, commercial whole loans and corporate loans. The reclassifications were due to a reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these
instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the valuation of these instruments. These unobservable inputs include, depending upon the position, assumptions to establish comparability to
bonds, loans or swaps with observable price/spread levels, default recovery rates, forecasted credit losses and prepayment rates.            During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $7.5 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications primarily
related to ABS and corporate loans as some liquidity re-entered the market for these specific positions and external prices and spread inputs for these instruments became observable.             Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other contracts .    The net gains in Level 3 Net derivative
and other contracts were primarily driven by widening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of certain basket default swaps, single name default swaps and tranche-indexed credit default swaps where the Company was long protection.
           The Company reclassified certain Net derivative contracts from Level 2 to
Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to tranche-indexed credit default swaps. The reclassifications were due to a reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these instruments, or a lack
of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement. These unobservable inputs include assumptions of comparability to similar instruments with observable market levels and correlation.
            Financial instruments
owned Investments .    The net losses from investments were primarily related to investments associated with the Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio.            The Company reclassified investments from Level 3 to Level 2 because it was determined that
certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement were observable.             Intangible assets .    The Company reclassified MSRs from Level 2 to Level 3 as significant inputs to the valuation model became unobservable during the period.             Other secured financings.     The Company reclassified Other
secured financings from Level 2 to Level 3 because it was determined that certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement were unobservable.             Long-term borrowings.     Amounts included in the Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net column primarily relates to the
issuance of junior subordinated debentures related to China Investment Corporation ( CIC ) investment (see Note 11).         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the Fiscal Year Ended
November 30, 2007          

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $2,538 million related to
Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments and $32 million related to Other assets associated with DFS and included in discontinued operations.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for fiscal 2007 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at November 30, 2007.     

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivative and
other contracts.     

(4)  
  Other assets were disposed of in connection with the Discover Spin-off.               Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased Corporate and other debt .    The net losses in Level 3
Corporate and other debt were primarily driven by certain asset-backed securities, including residential and commercial mortgage loans, and by corporate loans and lending commitments.            The Company reclassified certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value
measurement became unobservable. These reclassifications included transfers in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 primarily related to the continued market and liquidity deterioration in the mortgage markets. The most material transfers into Level 3
were in commercial whole loans, residuals from residential securitizations and interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other contracts .    The net gains in
Level 3 Net derivative contracts were primarily driven by certain credit default swaps and other instruments associated with the Company s credit products and securitized products activities. The Company recorded offsetting net losses in Level
2 Net derivative contracts, which were primarily associated with the Company s credit products and securitized products activities.            The Company reclassified certain Net derivative contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became unobservable.
The most material transfers into Level 3 were commercial and residential credit default swaps.             Financial instruments owned Investments.     The net gains from Financial instruments owned investments were primarily related to investments associated with the Company s real
estate products and private equity portfolio.             Assets and Liabilities
Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis as of November 30, 2008             Certain assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables above. These assets include certain loans, certain equity method investments, certain premises and equipment, certain goodwill, certain
intangible assets and certain real estate investments that were impaired during fiscal 2008, primarily in the fourth quarter. The following table presents, by caption on the consolidated statement of financial position, the fair value hierarchy for
those assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during fiscal 2008.         

(1)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income except for impairment losses related to Receivables Other loans and Other
investments, which are included in Other revenues.     

(2)  
  Loans held for investment with a carrying amount of $755 million were written down to their fair value of $634 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $121 million, calculated
based upon the fair value of the collateral. The fair value of the collateral was determined using external indicative bids, if available, or internal expected recovery models.     

(3)  
  Equity method investments with a carrying amount of $260 million were written down to their fair value of $164 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $96 million. Impairment
losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models.     

(4)  
  Property and equipment with a carrying amount of $106 million were written down to their fair value of $91 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $15 million. The impairment
charge relates to the fixed income business, which is a reporting unit within the Institutional Securities business segment.     

(5)  
  Goodwill with a carrying amount of $673 million was written down to its fair value of $0 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $673 million. The impairment charge relates to
the fixed income business, which is a reporting unit within the Institutional Securities business segment. The fair value of the fixed income business was estimated by comparison to similar companies using their publicly traded price-to-book
multiples as the basis for valuation. The impairment charge resulted from declines in the credit and mortgage markets in general, which caused significant declines in the stock market capitalization in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and hence, a
decline in the fair value of the fixed income business (see Note 6).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(6)  
  Intangible assets other than goodwill with a carrying amount of $271 million were written down to fair value of $219 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $52 million.
Impairment losses of $21 million recorded within the Institutional Securities business segment primarily related to intellectual property rights. Impairment losses of $31 million recorded within the Asset Management business segment primarily
related to management contract intangibles (see Note 6).     

(7)  
  Buildings and property with a carrying amount of $1,004 million were written down to their fair value of $737 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $267 million. Fair values
were generally determined using discounted cash flow models or third-party appraisals and valuations. A deferred commission asset associated with certain mutual fund sales commissions with a carrying value of $54 million was written down to its fair
value of $40 million, resulting in an impairment of $14 million. The fair value was determined using a discounted cash flow model. These charges relate to the Asset Management business segment.              There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during fiscal 2008.
There were no assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during fiscal 2007.              Fair Value Option.              The
following table presents information about the eligible instruments for which the Company elected the fair value option and for which a transition adjustment was recorded as of December 1, 2006:         
        The transition adjustments were primarily related to the following:         

(1)  
  Loans and lending commitments made in connection with Institutional Securities  corporate lending activities. The fair value option was elected for these positions as they are
generally risk managed on a fair value basis.     

(2)  
  Certain mortgage lending products which are risk managed by the Institutional Securities business segment on a fair value basis. The Company did not elect the fair value option for
other eligible mortgage lending products that were managed by the Discover business segment prior to the Discover Spin-off.     

(3)  
  Certain investments that had been previously accounted for under the equity method, as well as certain interests in clearinghouses. The fair value option was elected only for
positions that are risk managed on a fair value basis.     

(4)  
  Structured notes and other hybrid long-term debt instruments. The fair value option was elected for these positions as they are risk managed on a fair value basis. The fair value
option was elected for all such instruments issued after December 1, 2006 and a portion of the portfolio of instruments outstanding as of December 1, 2006. The fair value option was not elected for the remaining portion of the portfolio
that existed as of December 1, 2006 due to cost-benefit considerations, including the operational effort involved.     

(5)  
  Certain time deposits ( i.e. , brokered and callable certificates of deposit) issued by certain of the Company s bank subsidiaries. The fair value option was elected for
these positions as they are risk-managed on a fair value basis. The Company did not elect the fair value option for other eligible instruments within Deposits that were managed by the Discover business segment prior to the Discover Spin-off.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present gains and (losses) due to changes in fair value for items measured at fair value
pursuant to the fair value option election for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007.         
          In addition to the amounts in the
above table, as discussed in Note 2, all of the instruments within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are measured at fair value, either through the election of SFAS No. 159 or as required by other
accounting pronouncements.            For fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, the estimated
changes in the fair value of the Company s short-term and long-term borrowings, including structured notes and junior subordinated debentures, for which the fair value option was elected that were attributable to changes in
instrument-specific credit spreads were gains of approximately $5.6 billion and $840 million, respectively. These gains were attributable to the widening of the Company s credit spreads and were determined based upon observations of the
Company s secondary bond market spreads. The remainder of changes in fair value of the short-term and long-term borrowings during fiscal 2008 is attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and movements in the
reference price or index for structured notes. As of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the aggregate contractual principal amount of short-term and long-term debt instruments for which the fair value option was elected exceeded the
fair value of such instruments by approximately $7.5 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include structured notes where the repayment of the initial principal amount fluctuates based on changes in the reference price or
index.            The estimated changes in the fair value of certain financial
instruments included in Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, for which the fair value option was elected that was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were gains of approximately $280 million in fiscal 2008.
The gains were related to contingent lending commitments. These contingent lending commitments closed, and accordingly, the contracts were reclassified from Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased Corporate and other debt to Financial
instruments owned Corporate and other debt as the contracts became funded loan assets. The gains on contingent lending commitments discussed above were partially offset by losses on loan assets in fiscal 2008. See discussion below regarding
changes in instrument-specific credit spreads related to loan assets. For fiscal 2007, the estimated changes in the fair value of certain financial instruments included in Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased for which the fair value option
was elected that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were losses of approximately $291 million. This loss was primarily related to leveraged lending contingent commitments and was attributable to the illiquid market
conditions that existed late in fiscal 2007. It was generally determined based on the differential between estimated expected client yields at November 30, 2007 and contractual yields.            As of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the
aggregate contractual principal amount of loans for which the fair value option was elected exceeded the fair value of such loans by approximately $30.5 billion and $28.9 billion, respectively. The aggregate fair value
of loans that were 90 or more days past due as of November 30,  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 2008 and November 30, 2007 was $2.0 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively. The aggregate contractual principal amount of such loans 90 or more days
past due exceeded their fair value by approximately $19.8 billion and $23.5 billion at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively. This difference in amount primarily emanates from the Company s distressed debt trading
business, which purchases distressed debt at amounts well below par.            For
fiscal 2008, changes in the fair value of loans for which the fair value option was elected that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were losses of $5.9 billion. For fiscal 2007, changes in the fair value of loans
for which the fair value option was elected that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads were losses of $2.3 billion. Instrument-specific credit losses were determined by excluding the non-credit components of gains and
losses, such as those due to changes in interest rates.              Financial
Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value.              Some of the Company s
financial instruments are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but nevertheless are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature. Such financial assets and financial liabilities include: Cash
and due from banks, the cash component of Cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, Interest bearing deposits with banks, Federal funds sold and Securities purchased
under agreements to resell, Securities borrowed, Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Securities loaned, Receivables customers, Receivables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, Payables customers,
Payables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, and certain Deposits.            The Company s long-term borrowings are recorded at historical amounts unless elected under the SFAS No. 159 fair value election or designated as a hedged item
in a fair value hedge under SFAS No. 133. For long-term borrowings not measured at fair value, the fair value of the Company s long-term borrowings was estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analyses based on
the Company s current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. At November 30, 2008, the carrying value of the Company s long-term borrowings was approximately $25.0 billion higher than fair value. At
November 30, 2007, the carrying value of the Company s long-term borrowings was approximately $3.3 billion higher than fair value.             4.    Collateralized Transactions.             Securities purchased under agreements to resell ( reverse repurchase agreements ) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase
agreements ), principally government and agency securities, are carried at the amounts at which the securities subsequently will be resold or reacquired as specified in the respective agreements; such amounts include accrued interest. Reverse
repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are presented on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. The Company s policy is generally to take possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities borrowed and
Securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced and received in connection with the transactions. Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings
rather than sales, consolidated variable interest entities where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, and certain equity-referenced securities and loans where in all instances these liabilities are payable solely from the cash flows
of the related assets accounted for as Financial instruments owned.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities
financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The carrying value and classification
of securities owned by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were as follows:         
          The Company enters into reverse
repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers  needs
and to finance the Company s inventory positions. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. Under these agreements and transactions, the Company either receives or provides collateral,
including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities. The Company receives collateral in the form of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed and derivative transactions, and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into
securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. At November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the fair value of securities received as collateral where the Company is permitted to
sell or repledge the securities was $294 billion and $948 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $227 billion and $708 billion, respectively.            The Company additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with certain
securities for securities transactions in which the Company is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities, the Company reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related obligation to
return the collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition. At November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, $5 billion and $82 billion, respectively, were reported as Securities received as collateral and an Obligation to
return securities received as collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Collateral received in connection with these transactions that was subsequently repledged was approximately $5 billion and $72 billion at
November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively.            The Company
manages credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements
with counterparties that provide the Company, in the event of a customer default, the right to liquidate collateral and the right to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying
securities as compared with the related receivable or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company s
agreements with third parties specify its rights to request additional collateral. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activity are collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. For these transactions, adherence to
the  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company s collateral policies significantly limits the Company s credit exposure in the event of customer default. The Company may request
additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold but not delivered from customers.            The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of
securities, loans or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries, or
issuers engaged in a particular industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally the U.K., Japan, South Korea and Brazil), which, in
the aggregate, represented approximately 6% of the Company s total assets at November 30, 2008. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented
approximately 19% of the Company s total assets at November 30, 2008, consist of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company,
including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments made in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and
businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. In addition, the Company may originate or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as
compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such terms and features may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value ratios.             5.    Securitization Activities and Variable Interest Entities.               Securitization Activities  .    The Company engages in
securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. Special purpose entities
( SPEs ), also known as VIEs, are typically used in such securitization transactions. The Company does not consolidate certain securitization vehicles, commonly known as QSPEs, if they meet certain criteria regarding the types of assets
and derivatives they may hold, the types of sales they may engage in and the range of discretion they may exercise in connection with the assets they hold. The determination of whether an SPE meets the criteria to be a QSPE requires considerable
judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. See Note 1 for further information on QSPEs.   
        The following table presents the total assets (unpaid principal amount) of, and retained
interests in, QSPEs to which the Company acting as principal has transferred assets and received sales treatment:         
          Transferred assets are carried at fair
value prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 securitization vehicles. Underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may retain interests in the securitized
financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the
consolidated statements of income. Net gains at the time of securitization were not material in fiscal 2008.            The following tables present information on the Company s investment grade and non-investment grade residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S.
agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions (dollars in millions):         
       
          During fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006, the Company received proceeds from new securitization transactions of $7 billion, $64 billion and $68 billion, respectively, and cash flows from retained interests in securitization transactions of $3.1 billion, $6.0 billion and $6.0
billion, respectively.              Variable Interest
Entities.      FIN 46R applies to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its
activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns or both
as a result of holding variable interests. The Company consolidates entities of which it is the primary beneficiary. For those entities deemed to be QSPEs (as defined in SFAS No. 140), the Company does not consolidate the entity. See Note 1
regarding the characteristics of QSPEs.            The Company is involved with various
entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be VIEs. The Company s variable interests in VIEs include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees and derivative instruments. The Company s involvement with VIEs
arises primarily from:         

Purchased, sold and retained interests in connection with market-making and securitization activities.            

Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations.            

Loans and investments made to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets.            

Derivatives entered into with variable interest entities.            

Structuring of credit linked notes or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.            

Other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present information about the Company s total assets and maximum exposure to loss
associated with VIEs as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, which the Company consolidates. The Company generally accounts for the assets held by the entities as Financial instruments owned and the liabilities of the entities as
Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition (dollars in millions):         
          The following tables present
information about the Company s total assets and maximum exposure to loss associated with non-consolidated VIEs as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007 in which the Company had significant variable interests (dollars in
millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the VIE s assets. The
maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the Company s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the
fair value of certain other derivatives and investments the Company has made in the VIEs. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect writedowns already recorded by the
Company. The Company s maximum exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with the Company s variable interests.            In addition, the Company serves as an advisor to numerous money market and liquidity
funds. The Company does not consolidate these funds because the Company does not have a controlling financial interest in the funds nor is it the primary beneficiary of such funds. The Company also does not have a
significant variable interest in such funds.              Mortgage Servicing
Rights.      The Company may retain servicing rights to certain mortgage loans that are sold through its securitization activities. These transactions create an asset referred to as MSRs, which totaled approximately $220
million and $428 million as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively, and are included within Intangible assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition.             6.    Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.             The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when
certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which are generally one level below its business segments. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting
unit with its respective book value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the book value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below book value, however, further analysis is required to
determine the amount of the impairment. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable
companies.            The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing, as of
June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2007, which did not result in any goodwill impairment. However, due to the financial market and economic events that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company performed an interim impairment test
for goodwill subsequent to its annual testing date of June 1. The interim impairment test resulted in a noncash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $673 million. The charge relates to the fixed income business, which is a reporting unit
within the Institutional Securities business segment. The fair value of the fixed income business was calculated by comparison with similar companies using their publicly traded price-to-book multiples as the basis for valuation. The impairment
charge resulted from declines in the credit and mortgage markets in general, which caused significant declines in the stock market capitalization in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and, hence, a decline in the fair value of the fixed income
business.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Changes in the carrying amount of the Company s goodwill and intangible assets for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006 were as follows:         

(1)  
  Institutional Securities activity primarily represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s joint venture with JM Financial and the
Company s acquisitions of Saxon Capital, Inc. and CityMortgage Bank. Asset Management activity primarily represents goodwill and intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company s acquisition of FrontPoint Partners.

(2)  
  Global Wealth Management Group activity primarily represents goodwill disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of Quilter Holdings Ltd. Discover activity represents
goodwill and intangible assets disposed of in connection with the Discover Spin-off (see Note 19).     

(3)  
  Global Wealth Management Group activity primarily represents goodwill disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. (see
Note 20).     

(4)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income.     

(5)  
  Institutional Securities includes goodwill related to MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) of $437 million.     

(6)  
  Amortization expense for DFS is included in discontinued operations.     

(7)  
  Asset Management activity primarily represents intangible assets related to the Company s consolidation of Crescent.     

(8)  
  Institutional Securities activity primarily represents intangible assets disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of a controlling interest in a previously
consolidated commodities subsidiary.     

(9)  
  Impairment losses recorded within the Institutional Securities business segment primarily related to intellectual property rights. Impairment losses recorded within the
Asset Management business segment primarily related to management contract intangibles.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Amortizable intangible assets were as follows:         
          Amortization expense associated with
intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $64 million per year over the next five fiscal years.             7.    Deposits.             Deposits were as follows:         

(1)  
  Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).              The weighted average interest rates of interest bearing deposits outstanding during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were 2.1% and 4.0%,
respectively.            At November 30, 2008, interest bearing deposits maturing
over the next five years were as follows (dollars in millions):         
          As of November 30, 2008, the
Company had $140 million of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    8.    Borrowings.               Commercial Paper and Other Short-Term Borrowings.              The table below summarizes certain information regarding commercial paper and other short-term borrowings for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007:

(1)  
  These borrowings included bank loans and bank notes.     

(2)  
  Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 3 for additional information.              The Company maintains a $5 billion senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to
support general liquidity needs, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and the British pound, all of which exist with the Company as borrower. At
November 30, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement. The credit agreement expires on April 16, 2009, and the Company does not expect to renew this facility.            At November 30, 2008, the Company had a $28.9 billion consolidated shareholders 
equity surplus as compared with the credit agreement s covenant requirement.            In addition, the Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative
contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Long-Term Borrowings.         
       Maturities and Terms.      Long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end consisted of the following:         

(1)  
  Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar interest rates.     

(2)  
  U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ) and Federal
Funds rates. Non-U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based primarily on Euribor floating rates.     

(3)  
  Amounts include borrowings that are equity linked, credit linked, commodity linked or linked to some other index.     

(4)  
  Amounts include an increase of approximately $2.8 billion at November 30, 2008 and an increase of approximately $164 million at November 30, 2007 to the carrying amount of
certain of the Company s long-term borrowings associated with fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133.     

(5)  
  Amounts include a decrease of approximately $7 billion at November 30, 2008 to the carrying amounts of certain of the Company s long-term borrowings for which the fair
value option was elected (see Note 3).              The Company s
long-term borrowings included the following components:         
          During fiscal 2008, the Company issued
notes with a carrying value aggregating approximately $45 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $13 billion. During fiscal 2008, $56.1 billion of notes were repaid. Included in these repayments were $12.1
billion of fixed rate and floating-rate long-term debt repurchases by the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 resulting in a gain of approximately $2.3 billion. In connection with these repurchases, the Company de-designated certain swaps
used to hedge the debt.            Senior debt securities often are denominated in
various non-U.S. dollar currencies and may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index ( e.g.,  the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be
callable by the Company or extendible at the option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 or extend the notes aggregated $775 million at November 30, 2008 and $6,736 million at November 30, 2007. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated
debentures typically are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.              Senior Debt Structured Borrowings.      The Company s index-linked, equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings include various
structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index ( e.g.,  Standard   Poor s 500), a basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit
exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying index, equity, credit or other position, the Company has entered into various swap contracts and purchased options that effectively convert the borrowing costs into
floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks, or specific equity securities, credit or other position or
index. The Company accounts for these structured borrowings containing embedded derivatives which, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, were bifurcated from the hybrid notes and accounted for at fair value. Effective December 1, 2006,
the Company applied the fair value election in most cases to these hybrid notes. The swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are derivatives and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related to
the notes and economic hedges are reported in Principal transactions trading revenues.              Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated Debentures   .     Included in the Company s long-term borrowings are subordinated notes (including the Series F notes issued by MS Co. discussed below)
of $4,212 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.77% at November 30, 2008 and $4,015 million having a weighted average coupon of 4.77% at November 30, 2007. Junior subordinated debentures outstanding by the Company were
$10,266 million at November 30, 2008 and $4,876 million at November 30, 2007 having a contractual weighted average coupon of 6.17% at November 30, 2008 and 6.37% at November 30, 2007. Maturities of the subordinated and junior
subordinated notes range from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2046. Maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2067 at the Company s option.            At November 30, 2008, MS Co. had a $25 million 7.82% fixed rate subordinated Series F note outstanding. The note matures in fiscal
2016. The terms of the note contain restrictive covenants that require, among other things, MS Co. to maintain specified levels of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as defined therein.              Asset and Liability Management.      In general, securities
inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are generally
financed with fixed rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These
swaps effectively convert certain of the Company s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered into
currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The Company s use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows:         

(1)  
  Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are non-U.S. dollar interest rates.              Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through December 31, 2008, the Company s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by
approximately $11.1 billion.        

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.              As of November 30, 2008, the Company had commercial paper outstanding of $4.7 billion under
the TLGP. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had commercial paper and long-term debt outstanding of $6.5 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively, under the TLGP. These borrowings are senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and guaranteed
by the FDIC under the TLGP. The FDIC has concluded that the guarantee is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.             9. Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.               Commitments.              The Company s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing
arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending as of November 30, 2008 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the
actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial
condition (see Note 3).     

(2)  
  This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $571 million as of November 30, 2008, of which $563 million have maturities of less than one year and
$8 million of which have maturities of three to five years.     

(3)  
  The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to November 30, 2008 and settle
subsequent to year-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days, and as of November 30, 2008, $45.5
billion of the $46.5 billion settled within three business days.     

(4)  
  This amount includes binding commitments to enter into margin-lending transactions of $1.0 billion as of November 30, 2008 in connection with the Company s Institutional
Securities business segment.               Letters of Credit and Other
Financial Guarantees Obtained to Satisfy Collateral Requirements .    The Company has outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company s counterparties.
The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to provide collateral for securities and commodities borrowed and to satisfy various margin requirements in lieu of depositing
cash or securities with these counterparties.             Investment
Activities.     The Company enters into commitments associated with its real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Lending Commitments.     Primary lending commitments are those which are originated by the
Company whereas secondary lending commitments are purchased from third parties in the market. The commitments include lending commitments that are made to investment grade and non-investment grade companies in connection with corporate lending and
other business activities.             Commitments for Secured Lending
Transactions.     Secured lending commitments are extended by the Company to companies and are secured by real estate or other physical assets of the borrower. Loans made under these arrangements typically are at variable
rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower.             Forward Starting Reverse Repurchase Agreements .    The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior
to November 30, 2008 and settle subsequent to fiscal year-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations.             Commercial and Residential Mortgage-Related Commitments.     The
Company enters into forward purchase contracts involving residential mortgage loans, residential mortgage lending commitments to individuals and residential home equity lines of credit. In addition, the Company enters into commitments to originate
commercial and residential mortgage loans.             Other
Commitments .    Other commitments generally include binding commitments to enter into margin-lending transactions and commitments to issue letters of credit on behalf of clients in connection with the Company s
Institutional Securities business segment. Other commitments also include commercial lending commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company s Global Wealth
Management Group business segment.             Premises and
Equipment.     The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering premises and equipment (excluding commodities operating leases, shown separately). At November 30, 2008, future minimum rental commitments under such
leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows (dollars in millions):         
          The total of minimum rentals to be
received in the future under non-cancelable subleases as of November 30, 2008 was $98 million.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations
resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental income, was $623 million, $604 million and $470 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.   
        In connection with its commodities business, the Company enters into operating leases for
both crude oil and refined products storage and for vessel charters. These operating leases are integral parts of the Company s commodities risk management business. At November 30, 2008, future minimum rental commitments under such leases
were as follows (dollars in millions):         
            Guarantees.      
        The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company s obligations
under guarantee arrangements as of November 30, 2008:         

(1)  
  Fair value amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

(2)  
  Approximately $2.2 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments  table above in primary and secondary lending commitments.
             The Company has obligations under certain guarantee
arrangements, including contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or
commodity price, an index or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make
payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The Company s use of guarantees is described below by type of guarantee:
            Derivative Contracts.     Certain derivative
contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps (see further discussion below regarding credit derivatives in which the Company has sold credit
protection to the counterparty). Although the  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company s derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity
security, the Company has disclosed information regarding all derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and
written foreign currency options, cannot be estimated, as increases in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments
that the Company could be required to make under certain derivative contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed. In certain situations, collateral may be held by the Company for those contracts that meet the definition of a
guarantee. Generally, the Company sets collateral requirements by counterparty so that the collateral covers various transactions and products and is not allocated specifically to individual contracts. Therefore, the collateral amount disclosed in
the table above includes only contracts where the specific collateral can be identified. Also, the Company may recover amounts related to the underlying asset delivered to the Company under the derivative contract.            The Company records all derivative contracts at fair value. Aggregate market risk limits have
been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering
into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure.             Standby Letters of Credit and other Financial Guarantees Issued.     In connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate
activities, the Company provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a
borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation. A majority of the Company s standby letters of credit is provided on behalf of counterparties that are investment grade.             Market Value Guarantees.     Market value guarantees are issued to guarantee timely payment of a specified return
to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. These guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund. From time
to time, the Company may also guarantee return of principal invested, potentially including a specified rate of return, to fund investors.             Liquidity Facilities.     The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required
to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Company acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone municipal bonds in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the
holders of the individual bonds, respectively, have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Company on specified dates at a specified price. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event
payments are required under such liquidity facilities as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors. Primarily all of the underlying assets in the SPEs are investment grade.             General Partner Guarantees.     As a general partner in certain
private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such
distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations.             Auction Rate Security Guarantees.     Under the terms of various agreements entered into with government agencies
and the terms of the Company s announced offer to repurchase, the Company has agreed to repurchase at par certain ARS held by retail clients that were purchased through the Company. In addition, the Company has agreed to reimburse retail
clients who have sold certain ARS purchased through the Company at a loss. The  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Company s maximum exposure as it relates to these repurchase obligations is based on the Company s best estimate of the outstanding ARS eligible
under the repurchase program, which may change as and when more information about retail client auction rate security holdings becomes available. The Company has recorded a liability at fair value related to these auction rate security purchase
obligations.             Other Guarantees and Indemnities.             In the normal course of business, the Company provides guarantees and indemnifications in a
variety of commercial transactions. These provisions generally are standard contractual terms. Certain of these guarantees and indemnifications are described below.         

Trust Preferred Securities .    The Company has established Morgan Stanley Trusts for the limited purpose of issuing trust
preferred securities to third parties and lending the proceeds to the Company in exchange for junior subordinated debentures. The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent
that the Company has made payments to a Morgan Stanley Trust on the junior subordinated debentures. In the event that the Company does not make payments to a Morgan Stanley Trust, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be
able to rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The Company has not recorded any liability in the consolidated financial statements for these guarantees and believes that the occurrence of any events ( i.e. , non-performance on
the part of the paying agent) that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote. See Note 11 for details on the Company s junior subordinated debentures.            

Indemnities .    The Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent exposures and taxes, including U.S.
and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in
the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum
potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these
indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.            

Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees .    The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade
and clear securities and/or derivative contracts. Associated with its membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to the exchange or the
clearinghouse. While the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company s guarantee obligations would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its resources. Any
potential contingent liability under these membership agreements cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential requirement to
make payments under these agreements is remote.            

Guarantees on Securitized Asset and Whole Loan Sales .    As part of the Company s Institutional Securities securitization and
related activities, the Company provides representations and warranties that certain assets transferred in securitization transactions or sold as whole loans conform to specified guidelines. The Company may be required to repurchase such assets or
indemnify the purchaser against losses if the assets do not meet certain conforming guidelines. Due diligence is performed by the Company to ensure that asset guideline qualifications are met, and, to the extent the Company has acquired such assets
from other parties, the Company seeks to obtain its own representations and warranties regarding the assets. In many securitization transactions, some, but not all, of the original asset  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

sellers provide the representations and warranties directly to the purchaser, and the Company makes representations and warranties only with respect to other
assets. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of assets transferred by the Company that are subject to its representations and warranties. The Company
has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these representations and warranties and reimbursement agreements and believes that the probability of any payments under these arrangements is remote.
              Also, in connection with originations of residential mortgage loans under the Company s FlexSource      program, the Company may permit borrowers to pledge
marketable securities as collateral instead of requiring cash down payments for the purchase of the underlying residential property. Upon sale of the residential mortgage loans, the Company may provide a surety bond that reimburses the purchasers
for shortfalls in the borrowers  securities accounts up to certain limits if the collateral maintained in the securities accounts (along with the associated real estate collateral) is insufficient to cover losses that purchasers experience as a
result of defaults by borrowers on the underlying residential mortgage loans. The Company requires the borrowers to meet daily collateral calls to ensure the marketable securities pledged in lieu of a cash down payment are sufficient. At
November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the maximum potential amount of future payments the Company may be required to make under its surety bond was $114 million and $122 million, respectively. The Company has not recorded any contingent
liability in the consolidated financial statements for these representations and warranties and reimbursement agreements and believes that the probability of any payments under these arrangements is remote.         

Merger and Acquisition Guarantees .    The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be required to
provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or will have
sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the event the acquirer s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover the time
frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make cannot be estimated. The Company believes the
likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of the Company s due diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.               In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading
obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors
or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Credit Derivatives          
  The Company enters into credit derivatives, principally through credit default swaps, under which it provides counterparties protection against the risk of default on
a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity or entities. A majority of the Company s counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions, and monoline insurers. The table below summarizes
certain information regarding protection sold through credit default swaps and credit-linked notes as of November 30, 2008:         

(1)  
  Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

(2)  
  Fair value amount shown represents the fair value of the hybrid instruments.           
   Single Name Credit Default Swaps .    A credit default swap protects the buyer against the loss of principal on a bond or loan in case of a
default by the issuer. The protection buyer pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. The Company in turn will have to perform under a credit default swap if a credit event as
defined under the contract occurs. Typical credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay and restructuring of the obligations of the referenced entity. In order to provide an indication of the
current payment status or performance risk of the credit default swaps, the external credit ratings, primarily Moody s credit ratings, of the underlying reference entity of the credit default swaps are disclosed.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Index and Basket Credit Default Swaps.     Index and basket credit default swaps are credit
default swaps that reference multiple names through underlying baskets or portfolios of single name credit default swaps. Typically, in the event of a default on one of the underlying names, the Company will have to pay a pro rata portion of the
total notional amount of the credit default index or basket contract. In order to provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of these credit default swaps, the weighted average external credit ratings, primarily
Moody s credit ratings, of the underlying reference entities comprising the basket or index were calculated and disclosed.             Tranched Index and Basket Credit Default Swaps.     The Company also enters into index and basket credit default swaps where the credit
protection provided is based upon the application of tranching techniques. In tranched transactions, the credit risk of an index or basket is separated into various portions of the capital structure, with different levels of subordination. The most
junior tranches cover initial defaults, and once losses exceed the notional of the tranche, they are passed on to the next most senior tranche in the capital structure. A majority of the Company s tranched index and basket credit default swaps
are investment grade. As external credit ratings are not always available for tranched indices and baskets, investment grade status was determined based upon internal groupings.             Credit-Linked Notes ( CLNs ).     The Company has invested in CLNs, which are hybrid instruments
containing embedded derivatives, in which credit protection has been sold to the issuer of the note. If there is a credit event of a reference entity underlying the CLN, the principal balance of the note may not be repaid in full to the Company.
            Purchased Credit Protection .    For single name
credit default swaps and non-tranched index and basket credit default swaps, the Company has purchased protection with a notional amount of approximately $3.0 trillion, compared with a notional amount of approximately $3.2 trillion of credit
protection sold with identical underlying reference obligations. In order to identify purchased protection with the same underlying, the notional amount for individual reference obligations within non-tranched indices and baskets was determined on a
pro rata basis and matched off against single name and non-tranched index and basket credit default swaps where credit protection was sold with identical underlying reference obligations. The Company may also purchase credit protection to
economically hedge loans and lending commitments. In total, not considering whether the underlying reference obligations are identical, the Company has purchased credit protection of $4.0 trillion with a positive fair value of $528 billion compared
with $3.9 trillion of credit protection sold with a negative fair value of $496 billion.            The purchase of credit protection does not represent the sole manner in which the Company risk manages its exposure to credit derivatives. The Company manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a
variety of risk mitigation strategies, which include managing the credit and correlation risk across single name, non-tranched indices and baskets, tranched indices and baskets, and cash positions. Aggregate market risk limits have been established
for credit derivatives, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company may also recover amounts on the underlying reference obligation delivered to the Company under credit default swaps where credit protection
was sold.              Contingencies.               Legal.     In the normal course of business, the Company has been
named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or
threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are
in financial distress.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and
informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties,
injunctions or other relief.            The Company contests liability and/or the amount
of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings
are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters; how or if such matters will be resolved; when they will ultimately be resolved; or what the eventual settlement, fine,
penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of such matters could be material to the Company s operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of the
Company s revenues, income or cash flows for such period. Legal reserves have been established in accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies  ( SFAS No. 5 ). Once established, reserves are adjusted
when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.             Auction Rate Securities Matters.     On August 13, 2008, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the Office of the New York State Attorney General and the Office of the Illinois Secretary of State,
Securities Department (on behalf of a task force of other states under the auspices of the North American Securities Administrators Association) in connection with the proposed settlement of their investigations relating to the sale of ARS. The
Company agreed to, among other things: (1) repurchase at par illiquid ARS that were purchased by certain retail clients prior to February 13, 2008; (2) pay certain retail clients that sold ARS below par the difference between par and the price at
which the clients sold the securities; (3) arbitrate, under special procedures, claims for consequential damages by certain retail clients; (4) refund refinancing fees to certain municipal issuers of ARS; and (5) pay a total penalty of $35 million.
A separate investigation of these matters by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) remains ongoing.             10.    Regulatory Requirements.              Morgan Stanley.     In September 2008, the Company became a financial holding company subject to the regulation and oversight of the Fed
(see Note 1). In granting financial holding company status, the Fed will evaluate the Company s compliance with well-capitalized standards prospectively. Prior to September 2008, the Company was a consolidated supervised entity
( CSE ) as defined by the SEC.            During fiscal 2008 and as of November
30, 2008, the Company calculated capital requirements on a consolidated basis in accordance with the Basel II Accord as interpreted by the SEC. The Basel II Accord is designed to be a risk-based capital adequacy approach, which allows for the use of
internal estimates of risk components to calculate regulatory capital. As of November 30, 2008, the Company was in compliance with Basel II capital requirements with a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ) of 26.8%.
The Company seeks to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of at least 6%. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was 17.9%.            In addition to the above ratios, financial holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Fed. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage
ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for the
fiscal quarter. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was 6.6%.            For
March 31, 2009 and future dates, the Company expects to calculate its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework
described in the  International Convergence of Capital Measurement,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    The Company s Significant U.S. Bank Operating Subsidiaries.     The Company s
U.S. bank operating subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory capital requirements as administered by U.S. federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional,
discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt
corrective action, the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  assets, liabilities and certain off-balance
sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.            The
Company s management believes, as of November 30, 2008, that the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.            As of November 30, 2008, the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries exceeded
all regulatorily mandated and targeted minimum regulatory capital requirements to be well-capitalized. There are no conditions or events that management believes have changed the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  category.
           The table below sets forth the U.S. bank subsidiaries capital as of November
30, 2008.         
          Under regulatory capital requirements
adopted by the FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ( leverage ratio ), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to
risk-weighted assets ( Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio ) and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ( total risk-weighted capital ratio ). At November 30, 2008, the leverage ratio, Tier 1
risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company s FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.       
      MS Co. and Other Broker-Dealers.     MS Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and,
accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS Co. has consistently operated in excess of these requirements.
MS Co. s net capital totaled $8,284 million at November 30, 2008, which exceeded the amount required by $7,362 million. MSIP, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services
Authority, and MSJS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSJS consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.            MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital
in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
November 30, 2008, MS Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Other Regulated Subsidiaries.     Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject
to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of
their local capital adequacy requirements.            Morgan Stanley Derivative Products
Inc. ( MSDP ), which is a triple-A rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. MSDP is operated such that creditors of the Company should not expect to
have any claims on the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations to its own creditors are satisfied in full. Creditors of MSDP should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any of its affiliates, other than the
respective assets of MSDP.            During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. ( MSSF ), which provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected corporate clients, transferred certain loans to Ascension Loan Vehicle, LLC ( Ascension ). MSSF and
Ascension are both wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. MSSF transferred such loans so that they could be securitized and, in turn, made eligible to be pledged with the Fed. Certain of the securitized interests in Ascension were transferred to
Morgan Stanley Darica Funding, LLC ( MSDF ), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Ascension and MSDF, which are special purpose vehicle subsidiaries of the Company, maintain certain operating
restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies. Ascension and MSDF are structured as separate legal entities and operated such that creditors of the Company or any affiliate of the Company, including MSSF, but excluding Ascension
and MSDF, should not reasonably expect to have any claims on the assets of Ascension and MSDF, respectively. Such assets include loans that have been sold, and participation interests that have been granted, by MSSF to Ascension in an aggregate
approximate amount of $2.0 billion as of November 30, 2008. Such amounts may increase or decrease. Securitized interests in Ascension were transferred to MSDF in the aggregate approximate amount of $460 million during fiscal 2008. Creditors of
Ascension and MSDF should not reasonably expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any of its affiliates, including MSSF, other than the assets of Ascension and MSDF, respectively.            The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in
various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may restrict the Company s ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At November 30, 2008, approximately $13.8 billion of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be
restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances to the parent company.             11.    Shareholders  Equity.               Common Stock.      Changes in shares of common stock outstanding for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were as follows (share data in millions):         

(1)  
  Treasury stock purchases includes repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding.                Treasury Shares.      During fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased $711 million of its common stock as
part of its capital management share repurchase program at an average cost of $18.14 per share. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased $3.8 billion of its common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 $72.65 per share. In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s
outstanding common stock. This share repurchase authorization considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2008, the Company had
approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.              China Investment Corporation Investment.      In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock (see  Stock Purchase Contracts  herein) to a
wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC s ownership in the Company s common stock, including the number of shares of common stock to be received by CIC upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be
9.9% or less of the Company s total shares outstanding based on the total shares that were outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC is a passive financial investor and has no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the
Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds was treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.            As described below, the Equity Units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A ( Series A Trust ), Morgan
Stanley Capital Trust B ( Series B Trust ) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C ( Series C Trust ) (each a  Morgan Stanley Trust  and, collectively, the  Trusts ) and stock purchase contracts issued by the
Company. The only assets held by the Series A Trust, Series B Trust and Series C Trust are junior subordinated debentures issued by the parent company.             Equity Units.             Each Equity Unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of:         

(i)  
  an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Series A Trust, Series B Trust or Series C Trust with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; and

(ii)  
  a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company.               Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Trust Preferred Securities.             In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities
due no later than February 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and $30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the
Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to SFAS No. 159. The common and trust preferred securities of the Trusts, totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership
interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Series A Trust,
Series B Trust and Series C Trust will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%.            The trust common securities, which are held by the Company, represent an interest in the Trusts and are recorded as an equity method investment in the Company s
consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts are VIEs in accordance with FIN 46R, and the Company does not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as it is not the primary beneficiary of any of the Trusts.            The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the
holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. If the Company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a Morgan Stanley Trust, such Morgan Stanley Trust will not be able to pay  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 any amounts payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. In that event,
holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities is paid, the
amounts payable with respect to the trust preferred securities upon liquidation of the Morgan Stanley Trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred
securities held by the Equity Unit holders are pledged to the Company to collateralize the obligations of the Equity Unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The Equity Unit holders may substitute certain zero-coupon treasury
securities in place of the trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts.             Stock Purchase Contracts.             Each stock
purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of newly issued or treasury shares of the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate.
           On October 13, 2008, the Company sold to Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group,
Inc ( MUFG ) certain preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion (see below for further discussion). As a result of this transaction, and as contractually required by the terms of the securities purchase agreement for the
sale of Equity Units to CIC, the threshold appreciation price of $57.6840 was reduced to the reference price of $48.07 (see Note 12). As a result, the Company will issue 116,062,911 shares of common stock (subject to adjustment for certain
anti-dilution provisions and participation in certain dividends as described below) upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts on August 17, 2010.            The initial quarterly distributions on the Series A, Series B and Series C trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract adjustment payments on the stock
purchase contracts of 3%, result in a 9% yield on the Equity Units. If the Company defers any of the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of
9% until paid, to the extent permitted by law.            The present value of the future
contract adjustment payments due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400 million and was recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in Paid-in capital, a component of
Shareholders  equity in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of financial condition in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will accrete over the term of the stock
purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to Interest expense. When the contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance.             Earnings per Share.             Prior to October 13, 2008, the impact of the Equity Units was reflected in the Company s earnings per diluted common share using
the treasury stock method, as defined by SFAS No. 128,  Earnings Per Share  ( SFAS No. 128 ). Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted
common share was calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the stock purchase contract based on the average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares
that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be received upon settlement of the contract at the average closing price for the reporting period.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Dilution of net income per share occurred (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common
shares was over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares for a reporting period was between $48.0700 and $57.6840 and was greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending
three days prior to the end of such reporting period.            Effective
October 13, 2008, as a result of the adjustment to the Equity Units as described above, the Equity Units are now deemed to be  participating securities  in accordance with EITF Issue 03-6,  Participating Securities and the
Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128,  Earnings per Share   in that the Equity Units have the ability to participate in any dividends the Company declares on common shares above $0.27 per share during any quarterly reporting
period via an increase in the number of common shares to be delivered upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts. The Equity Units will be reflected, prospectively from October 13, 2008, in the Company s earnings per share calculation
using the two-class method. During fiscal 2008, no dividends above $0.27 per share were declared during any quarterly reporting period.            The Equity Units do not share in any losses of the Company for purposes of calculating earnings per share. Therefore, if the Company incurs a loss in any reporting
period, losses will not be allocated to the Equity Units in the earnings per share calculation.            In addition, as required by the U.S. Department of Treasury s (the  U.S. Treasury ) Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) and Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ) (see below for further
discussion), the Company may not declare or pay any cash dividends on its common stock other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.27 without the consent of the U.S. Treasury.            See Note 2 for further discussion on the two-class method and Note 12 for the dilutive impact
for fiscal 2008.              Rabbi Trusts.      The
Company has established rabbi trusts (the  Rabbi Trusts ) to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding restricted stock units. The number of shares of common stock outstanding in the Rabbi Trusts was
approximately 74 million at November 30, 2008 and approximately 107 million at November 30, 2007. The assets of the Rabbi Trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value of the Company s stock held in the
Rabbi Trusts is classified in Shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.                Preferred Stock and Warrants   .             Series A Preferred Stock.     In July 2006, the Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an aggregate of $1,100 million.
Each Depositary Share represents 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value ( Series A Preferred Stock ). The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in
whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company s common stock upon liquidation.
Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $348.35 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2009 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2008.             Series B and Series C Preferred Stock.     On October 13,
2008, the Company issued to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred Stock ) and 1,160,791 shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock
( Series C Preferred Stock ) for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible at MUFG s option (at a conversion price of $25.25) into 310,464,033 shares of the Company s common
shares, subject to  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 certain anti-dilution adjustments. Subject to any applicable New York Stock Exchange stockholder approval requirements, one-half of the Series B Preferred
Stock will mandatorily convert into the Company s common shares when, at any time on or after October 13, 2009, the market price of the Company s common shares exceeds 150% of the then-applicable conversion price (initially $25.25)
for twenty trading days within any period of thirty consecutive trading days beginning after October 13, 2009 (subject to certain ownership limits on MUFG and its affiliates). The remainder of the Series B Preferred Stock will mandatorily
convert on the same basis on or after October 13, 2010.            The Series B
Preferred Stock pays a non-cumulative dividend, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at the rate of 10% per annum (provided, that, if stockholder approval, as noted above, has not been received by February 17, 2009,
the per annum rate shall increase to 13% on and including February 17, 2009 and shall remain in effect until the date upon which stockholder approval is received or no longer required) of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, except
under certain circumstances (as set forth in the securities purchase agreement for the sale of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock to MUFG). Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $25.56
per share of Series B Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2009 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2008.            The Series C Preferred Stock is redeemable by the Company, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $1,100 per share. Dividends on
the Series C Preferred Stock are payable, on a non-cumulative basis, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. Subsequent to fiscal year-end,
the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $25.56 per share of Series C Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2009 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2008.            The $9 billion in proceeds was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C
Preferred Stock based on their relative fair values at issuance (approximately $8.1 billion was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and approximately $0.9 billion to the Series C Preferred Stock). Upon redemption by the Company, the excess of
the redemption value of $1,100 per share over the carrying value of the Series C Preferred Stock ($0.9 billion allocated at inception or approximately $784 per share) will be charged to Retained earnings ( i.e.,  treated in a manner similar to
the treatment of dividends paid). The amount charged to Retained earnings will be deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the related reporting period in which the Series C Preferred Stock is redeemed
by the Company (See Note 12 for additional details).             Series D Preferred
Stock and Warrants.     On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially introduced as TARP) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced its intention to inject capital
into nine large U.S. financial institutions, including the Company, under the CPP and since has injected capital into many other financial institutions. The Company was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP,
and on October 26, 2008 entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion,
10 million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company ( Series D Preferred Stock ) and warrants to purchase up to 65,245,759 shares of common stock, par value $0.01
per share (the  Warrants ), of the Company. As a condition under the CPP, the Company s share repurchases are currently limited to purchases in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan, consistent with past
practices, including purchases to offset share dilution in connection with any such plans. This restriction is effective until October 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of the Company s preferred shares issued under the CPP.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Series D Preferred Stock ranks senior to the Company s common shares and  pari passu , which is at an
equal level in the capital structure, with existing preferred shares, other than preferred shares which by their terms rank junior to any other existing preferred shares. The Series D Preferred Stock pays a compounding cumulative dividend, in cash,
at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and 9% per annum thereafter on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. The Company is prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of common stock, other junior securities or
preferred stock ranking  pari passu  with the Series D Preferred Stock or repurchasing or redeeming any shares of the Company s common shares, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking  pari passu  with the Series D Preferred
Stock in any quarter unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on the Series D Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods (including the latest completed dividend period), subject to certain limited exceptions. The Series D Preferred Stock
is non-voting, other than class voting rights on matters that could adversely affect the Series D Preferred Stock. The Series D Preferred Stock is callable at par after three years. Prior to the end of three years, the Series D Preferred Stock
may be redeemed with the proceeds from one or more qualified equity offerings of any Tier 1 perpetual preferred or common stock of at least $250 million (each a  Qualified Equity Offering ). The U.S. Treasury may also transfer the Series D
Preferred Stock to a third party at any time. Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $10.69 per share that was paid on January 15, 2009 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2008.
           The Company s preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital in accordance
with regulatory capital requirements (see Note 10).             Warrants.     The Warrants have a term of 10 years and are exercisable at any time, in whole or in part, at an exercise price of $22.99 per share (subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments). The U.S. Treasury
may not exercise the Warrants for, or transfer the Warrants with respect to, more than half of the initial shares of common stock underlying the Warrants prior to the earlier of (i) the date on which the Company receives aggregate gross
proceeds of not less than $10 billion from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings and (ii) December 31, 2009. The number of shares to be delivered upon settlement of the warrant will be reduced by 50% if the Company receives aggregate
gross proceeds of at least 100% of the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Series D Preferred Stock ($10 billion) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings prior to December 31, 2009.            The $10 billion in proceeds was allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock and the Warrants
based on their relative fair values at issuance (approximately $9 billion was allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock and approximately $1 billion to the Warrants). The difference between the initial value allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock
of approximately $9 billion and the liquidation value of $10 billion will be charged to Retained earnings over the first five years of the contract as an adjustment to the dividend yield using the effective yield method. The amount charged to
Retained earnings will be deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the related reporting period (see Note 12).              Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.      As of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the components of the Company s
Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments.     Cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company uses
foreign currency contracts and designates certain non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the
value of the Company s net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in
currency exchange rates on its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. Under some circumstances, however, the Company may elect not to hedge its net monetary
investments in certain foreign operations due to market conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information relating to the hedging of the Company s net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar
functional currency subsidiaries and their effects on cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments is summarized below:         

At November 30,   

2008   

2007   

(dollars in millions)   

Net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries   
     
  $  
  7,549  

$  
  9,534  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from net investments in subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency

$  
  (352  
  )  
     
  $  
  1,290  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from realized or unrealized losses on hedges, net of tax   

306  

(1,176  
  )   

Total cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax   
     
  $  
  (46  
  )  
     
  $  
  114  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    12.    Earnings per Common Share.             Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock unit awards where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements.
Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities. The Company calculates earnings per share using the two-class method as defined in EITF 03-6 (see Note 2). The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS
(in millions, except for per share data):         
          The following securities were
considered antidilutive and, therefore, were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
          13.    Interest
and Dividends and Interest Expense.             Details of Interest income and
Interest expense were as follows (in millions):         

(1)  
  Interest income and expense and dividend income are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions.
When interest and dividends are included as a component of the instrument s fair value, interest and dividends are included within Principal transactions trading revenues or Principal transactions investment revenues. Otherwise, they
are included within Interest and dividends income or Interest expense.     

(2)  
  Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest and dividends revenues.     

(3)  
  Amounts primarily related to securities financing transactions, which include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loan transactions, customer
receivables/payables and segregated customer cash. The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity for each of the
Company s separate businesses and is therefore unable to further breakout Interest and dividends and Interest expense (see Note 1).               14. Other Revenues.             Details of Other revenues were as follows (in millions):         
           15.    Employee
Stock-Based Compensation Plans.             The Company accounts for stock-based
compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123R (see Note 2). SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated
forfeitures.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented below:

(1)  
  Amounts include $94 million, $345 million and $457 million of accrued stock-based compensation expense primarily related to year-end equity awards granted in December
2008, December 2007 and December 2006, respectively, to employees who are retirement-eligible under the award terms.              The table above excludes stock-based compensation expense recorded in discontinued operations, which was approximately $17 million and $32 million for fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006, respectively. No stock-based compensation expense was recorded in discontinued operations in fiscal 2008.            The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense related to deferred stock and stock options was $572 million, $722 million and $737 million for fiscal 2008,
fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense included in discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was approximately $6 million and $11 million, respectively. No tax benefit for
stock-based compensation expense was recorded in discontinued operations in fiscal 2008.            At November 30, 2008, the Company had approximately $1,400 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards (excluding fiscal 2008 year-end awards granted in December 2008 to
nonretirement-eligible employees, which will begin to be amortized in 2009). The unrecognized compensation cost relating to unvested stock-based awards expected to vest will primarily be recognized over the next two years.            In connection with awards under its equity-based compensation plans, the Company is
authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. At November 30, 2008, approximately 110 million shares were available for future grant under these plans.            The Company generally uses treasury shares to deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing
repurchase authorization that includes repurchases in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans.            As a result of the Discover Spin-off effective June 30, 2007, all outstanding options to purchase the Company s common stock held by employees of Discover were
canceled and replaced with options to purchase Discover common stock. Outstanding options to purchase Morgan Stanley common stock held by directors and employees who remained with the Company after the Discover Spin-off were adjusted to preserve the
intrinsic value of the award immediately prior to the spin-off using an adjustment ratio based on the Morgan Stanley closing market stock price immediately prior to the spin-off date and the beginning market stock price at the date of the spin-off.
Additional compensation cost recognized as a result of this modification was not material.            Similarly, restricted stock units awarded pursuant to equity incentive plans and held by employees of Discover were canceled and replaced with restricted units of Discover stock. Outstanding deferred shares held by
Morgan  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Stanley directors and employees who remained with the Company after the Discover Spin-off were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares by an adjustment
ratio in order to account for the impact of the spin-off on the value of the Company s shares at the time the spin-off was completed. No additional compensation cost was recognized as a result of this modification. Cash paid to the holders of
deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares was not material.              Deferred
Stock Awards.      The Company has made deferred stock awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation
with awards made in the form of restricted common stock or in the right to receive unrestricted shares of common stock in the future ( restricted stock units ). Awards under these plans are generally subject to vesting over time contingent
upon continued employment and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until the end of a specified period, generally two to five years from date of grant. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the
end of the relevant restriction period. All or a portion of a vested award also may be canceled in certain limited situations, including termination for cause during the relevant restriction period. Recipients of deferred stock awards generally have
voting rights and receive dividend equivalents that are not subject to vesting.            The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s vested and unvested restricted stock units (share data in millions):         
     
          The weighted average price for restricted stock units granted during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was $66.68 (adjusted to reflect the impact
of the Discover Spin-off) and $57.86, respectively (unadjusted for the Discover Spin-off). As of November 30, 2008, the weighted-average remaining term for the Company s outstanding restricted stock units was approximately 1.8 years.
           The total fair market value of restricted stock units converted to common
stock during fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was $3,209 million, $817 million and $768 million, respectively. The value of restricted stock units converting to common stock in fiscal 2008 increased from prior fiscal years, primarily as a
result of a modification in fiscal 2008 to accelerate the conversion of certain restricted stock unit awards. Additional compensation cost recognized as a result of this modification was not material.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s unvested restricted stock units (share data in
millions):         

(1)  
  Unvested restricted stock units represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. At November 30, 2008,
approximately 45 million unvested restricted stock units, with a weighted average grant date fair value of $52.28, were expected to vest.                Stock Option Awards.      The Company has granted stock option awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans
provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of stock options generally having an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on the
date of grant. Such stock option awards generally become exercisable over a three-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon termination of employment. Stock option awards have vesting,
restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those in deferred stock awards.            The weighted average fair values of options granted during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were $18.55 (adjusted to reflect the impact of the Discover Spin-off) and $14.15 (unadjusted for the Discover Spin-off),
respectively, utilizing the following weighted average assumptions. No options were granted in fiscal 2008.         
          The Company s expected option
life has been determined based upon historical experience. Beginning on December 1, 2006, the expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded options, consistent with the guidance in
Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107,  Share-Based Payment  ( SAB 107 ).         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s stock options (share data in millions):

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006 was $211 million, $707 million and $326 million, respectively.            As
of November 30, 2008, there were no exercisable in-the-money stock options.            The following table presents information relating to the Company s stock options outstanding at November 30, 2008 (number of options outstanding data in millions):         
          MSCI Inc., a consolidated subsidiary
of the Company, has issued equity-based awards in the form of restricted stock units (representing shares of MSCI Inc. common stock) and options to purchase MSCI Inc. common stock (except for expense amounts, such awards are not reflected in the
above disclosures). Stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) for fiscal 2008 for awards of MSCI equity was $30 million, including $4 million of accrued stock-based compensation related to year-end equity awards granted in December
2008 to employees of MSCI Inc. who were retirement-eligible under the award terms. For fiscal 2007, stock-based compensation expense for awards of MSCI equity was $1 million; there were no equity awards granted in December 2007 to employees of MSCI
Inc. who were retirement-eligible under the award terms.             16.    Employee Benefit Plans.             The
Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees. The Company also provides
certain postemployment benefits to certain former employees or inactive employees prior to retirement.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company s defined benefit pension, postretirement and postemployment plans are accounted for in accordance
with SFAS Nos. 87, 88, 106, 112 and 158. The Company adopted the provision of SFAS No. 158 to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the Company s defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in
the consolidated statement of financial condition at November 30, 2007. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of $347 million ($208 million after-tax) to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of Shareholders 
equity.            Prior to its adoption of SFAS No. 158, but after taking into
account the effects of the Discover Spin-off, the Company recognized a final net minimum pension liability of $68 million ($47 million after-tax) at November 30, 2007 and $13 million ($7 million after-tax with recognition of a $1 million
intangible asset) at November 30, 2006 for defined benefit pension plans whose accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets.            The following table illustrates the incremental effect of the application of SFAS No. 158 as of November 30, 2007:         
          For fiscal 2008, the Company adopted
the measurement date provision of SFAS No. 158 under the alternative transition method, which requires the measurement date to coincide with the fiscal year-end date. The Company recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $13 million to
Shareholders  equity ($21 million before tax) upon adoption of this requirement.              Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.      Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company hired before July 1, 2007 and its U.S. affiliates are covered by a non-contributory, defined benefit
pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Qualified Plan ). Unfunded supplementary plans (the  Supplemental Plans ) cover certain executives. In addition, certain of the
Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries also have pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee s years of credited service and on compensation
levels specified in the plans. The Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. Liabilities for benefits payable under its Supplemental
Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries. The Company s U.S. Qualified Plan was closed to new hires effective July 1, 2007. In lieu of a defined benefit pension plan, eligible employees who were first
hired, rehired or transferred to a U.S. benefits eligible position on or after July 1, 2007 will receive a retirement contribution under the 401(k) plan. The amount of the retirement contribution is included in the Company s 401(k) cost
and will be equal to between 2% and 5% of eligible pay based on years of service as of December 31.            The Company also has unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and their dependents.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present information for the Company s pension and postretirement plans on an aggregate
basis:             Net Periodic Benefit Expense.             The following table presents the components of the net periodic benefit expense:   
     
          Other changes in plan assets and
benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income on a pre-tax basis in fiscal 2008 are as follows:         
          The Company amortizes (as a component
of pension expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or
the market-related value of plan assets.            The following table presents the
weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:         
          The expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets represents the Company s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based
on the target asset allocations. For plans where there is no established target asset allocation, actual asset allocations were used. The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same
from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions. In fiscal 2008, the weighted average assumed expected long-term rate of return on assets
changed from 6.65% to 6.46%, primarily due to the change in the U.S. Qualified Plan s asset allocation. To better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, in fiscal 2007, the U.S. Qualified Plan s target
asset allocation policy was  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 changed from 45%/55% equity/fixed income to 30%/70% equity/fixed income. In late fiscal 2008, the U.S. Qualified Plan transitioned to 100% investment in
fixed income securities and related derivative securities, including interest rate swap contracts. This asset allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and limit volatility of required contributions. Total U.S. Qualified
Plan portfolio performance will be evaluated by comparing the Plan s investment performance with an estimate of the change in the Plan s liability.             Benefit Obligations and Funded Status.             The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 as well as a summary
of the funded status at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007:         

(1)  
  Transfers and divestitures primarily relate to the impact of the Discover Spin-off and non-U.S. subsidiary plans.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Changes in actuarial gain under benefit obligation are primarily attributed to an increase in the discount rates as
of November 30, 2008.            The estimated prior-service credit that will be
amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over 2009 is approximately $(9) million for defined benefit pension plans and $(1) million for postretirement plans. The estimated net loss for the defined
benefit pension plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over 2009 is approximately $3 million.            The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $1,993 million and $2,147 million at November 30, 2008 and
November 30, 2007, respectively.            The following table contains information
for pension plans with projected benefit obligations or accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end:         
          The following table presents the
weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at fiscal year-end:         
          The discount rate used to determine
the benefit obligation for the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan and postretirement plans was selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.S. Qualified
Plan and postretirement liabilities, each determined independently. The pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based Aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income
investments. As of November 30, 2008, the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan represented 82% of the total liabilities of its U.S. pension and postretirement plans combined. The discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for the defined
benefit portion of its U.K. pension plan was selected by the Company using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.K. defined benefit pension liabilities. For all other non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed
discount rates based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.            The following table presents assumed health care cost trend rates used to determine the postretirement benefit obligations at fiscal year-end:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company s
postretirement benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:         

One-Percentage Point Increase   
      
   One-Percentage Point (Decrease)   

(dollars in millions)   

Effect on total postretirement service and interest cost   
      
  $  
  4  
      
  $  
  (3  
  )   
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

26  

(21  
  )   
          The Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the  Act ) was enacted in December 2003. For 2008, Morgan Stanley elected not to apply for the Medicare Retiree Drug Subsidy or take any other action related to the Act since Medicare prescription
drug coverage was deemed to have no material effect on the Company s retiree medical program. No impact of the Act has been reflected in the Company s results.       
      U.S. Qualified Plan Assets.     The U.S. Qualified Plan assets represent 92% of the Company s total pension plan assets. The
weighted average asset allocations for the U.S. Qualified Plan at November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007 and the targeted asset allocation for 2009 by asset class were as follows:         
           U.S. Qualified Pension Plan Asset
Allocation .    The Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the asset allocation targets for its U.S. Qualified Plan based on its assessment of business and financial
conditions, demographic and actuarial data, funding characteristics and related risk factors. Other relevant factors, including industry practices and long-term historical and prospective capital market returns, were considered as well. The expected
long-term rate of return on U.S. Qualified Plan assets is 6.50% for fiscal 2008.            The U.S. Qualified Plan uses a combination of active and risk-controlled fixed income investment strategies. The fixed income asset allocation consists primarily of longer-duration fixed income securities in order to help reduce plan
exposure to interest rate variation and to better align assets with obligations. The longer duration fixed income allocation is expected to help maintain the stability of plan contributions over the long run.            The allocation by the investment manager of the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan is
reviewed by the Morgan Stanley Retirement Plan Investment Committee on a regular basis. When the exposure to an asset class or a given investment manager reaches a minimum or maximum level, a review process is initiated, and the allocation is
automatically rebalanced back toward target allocation levels unless the Investment Committee determines otherwise.            Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of the plan s policy guidelines and are
consistent with the plan s risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:         

Derivatives may be used only if they are deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a similar direct investment in the underlying cash market or if
the derivatives are being used to manage risk of the portfolio.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

Derivatives may not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances.            

Derivatives may not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that investment activity is undertaken for
long-term investment rather than short-term trading.            

Derivatives may only be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio when their possible effects can be quantified, shown to enhance the
risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.               As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes percentage allocations and credit
quality. Derivatives will be used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.             Cash Flows.             The Company expects to contribute approximately $300 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2009 based upon their current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for 2009, as
applicable.            Expected benefit payments associated with the Company s
pension and postretirement benefit plans for the next five fiscal years and in aggregate for the five fiscal years thereafter are as follows:         
            Morgan Stanley 401(k) and Profit
Sharing Awards.      Eligible U.S. employees receive 401(k) matching contributions that are invested in the Company s common stock. The retirement contribution granted in lieu of a defined benefit pension plan is
included in the Company s 401(k) expense. The Company also provides discretionary profit sharing to certain Non-U.S. employees. The pre-tax expense associated with the 401(k) match and profit sharing for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006
was $106 million, $128 million and $117 million, respectively.              Defined Contribution Pension Plans.      The Company maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits
are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, the Company s expense related to these plans was $128 million, $115 million and $87 million, respectively.
             Other Postemployment
Benefits.      Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation, severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided to former
employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. The postemployment benefit obligations were not material as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    17.    Income Taxes.             The provision for (benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations consisted of:         
          The following table reconciles the
provision for (benefit from) income taxes to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate:         
     
          As of
November 30, 2008, the Company had approximately $6.0 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no provisions have been recorded for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such earnings can
be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income taxes payable in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax
bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities at
November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007 were as follows:         

(1)  
  The valuation allowance reduces the benefit of certain separate Company federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and book writedowns to the amount that will more likely
than not be realized.              During fiscal 2008, the valuation
allowance was increased by $182 million related to the ability to utilize certain separate federal and state net operating losses.            The Company had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for which a deferred tax asset of $2,550 million and $724 million was recorded as of November 30,
2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations and will expire in 2026. The deferred tax asset for federal net operating loss carryforwards does not include approximately $75 million related
to excess tax benefits from the exercise or conversion of stock-based compensation awards for which a tax benefit will be recorded in Paid-in capital when realized.       
     The Company had tax credit carryforwards for which a related deferred tax asset of $1,861 million and $1,005 million was recorded as of November 30,
2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization and will expire in 2016.            The Company believes that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset of $6,282 million (after valuation allowance) is more likely than not based on
expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.            The Company recorded net income tax (provision for) benefits to Paid-in capital of $(131) million, $280 million and $72 million related to employee stock compensation transactions in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.
Such amounts were recorded to Paid-in capital.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Cash paid for income taxes was $1,406 million, $3,404 million and $3,115 million in fiscal 2008,
fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. During fiscal 2008, the Company received a refund of $1,200 million for overpayment of estimated taxes remitted during fiscal 2007.            The Company adopted FIN 48 on December 1, 2007 and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $92 million as a
decrease to the opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2007.            The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption of FIN 48 was approximately $3.4 billion and $2.7 billion as of November 30, 2008 and December 1, 2007, respectively. Of this total, approximately $1.9
billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, (net of federal benefit of state issues, competent authority and foreign tax credit offsets) represent the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate
in future periods.            The Company recognizes the accrual of interest related to
unrecognized tax benefits in Provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of income. The Company recognizes the accrual of penalties (if any) related to unrecognized tax benefits in Income before income taxes. For fiscal 2008, the
Company recognized $76 million of interest (net of federal and state income tax benefits) in the consolidated statement of income. Interest expense accrued as of November 30, 2008 and December 1, 2007 was approximately $306 million and
$223 million, respectively, net of federal and state income tax benefits. The amount of penalties accrued was immaterial.            The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for fiscal 2008 (dollars in millions):         

Unrecognized Tax Benefits    

Balance at December 1, 2007   
      
  $  
  2,722  

Increases based on tax positions related to the current period   

856  

Decreases based on tax positions related to the current period   

Increases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

5  

Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(124  
  )   
 
    Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities   

Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations   

(34  
  )   

Balance at November 30, 2008   
      
  $  
  3,425  

The Company is under continuous
examination by the Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the United Kingdom (the  U.K. ), and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such
as New York. The IRS and Japanese tax authorities are expected to conclude the field work portion of their respective examinations during 2009. During 2009, the Company expects to come to conclusion with the U.K. tax authorities on issues through
tax year 2007, including those in appeals. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from these and subsequent years  examinations. The Company has established
unrecognized tax benefits that the Company believes are adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts unrecognized tax benefits only when more information is available or when an event occurs
necessitating a change. The Company believes that the resolution of tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated statements of financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated statements of income for a particular future period and on the Company s effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   It is reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within
the next twelve months. At this time, however, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and impact on the effective tax rate over the next twelve months.            The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate
and the earliest tax year subject to examination:         
           18.    Segment
and Geographic Information.             The Company structures its segments primarily
based upon the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and the Company s management organization. The Company provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of its business
segments: Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. For further discussion of the Company s business segments, see Note 1.       
     Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are included in determining their operating results. Other revenues and expenses
that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon the Company s allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment s respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.
           As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with
external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of
timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by the Asset Management business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment associated with sales of certain products and the related
compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment s global representatives.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Selected financial information for the Company s segments is presented below:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  See Note 19 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(2)  
  The results of the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2007 included a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in
consolidation. The results of the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company s sale of its former aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.

(3)  
  Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company s business segments.              The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company s non-U.S. business activities are principally conducted through
European and Asian locations. The following table presents selected income statement information and the total assets of the Company s operations by geographic area. The net revenues and total assets disclosed in the following table reflect the
regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues and total assets, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:         

Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting client location, debt underwriting revenue recording location, sales and
trading trading desk location.            

Global Wealth Management Group: global representative coverage location.            

Asset Management: client location, except for merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.               19.    Discontinued Operations.               Fiscal 2008.                Discover.      During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, DFS announced the settlement of its lawsuit
with Visa and MasterCard. At the time of the spin-off of DFS, the Company and DFS negotiated an agreement that entitled the Company to receive approximately $1.3 billion pre-tax in connection with this settlement; however, DFS contends
that the Company is in breach of the agreement. The Company has filed a lawsuit to enforce this agreement and this revenue has not yet been included in the Company s results of operations.            The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2008 included costs related to a legal
settlement between DFS, Visa and MasterCard.              Fiscal 2007.
               Discover.        On
June 30, 2007, the Company completed the Discover Spin-off. The Company distributed all of the outstanding shares of DFS common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to the Company s stockholders of record as of June 18, 2007. The results
of DFS are included within discontinued operations for all periods through the date of the Discover Spin-off.            The net assets that were distributed to shareholders on the date of the Discover Spin-off were $5,558 million, which was recorded as a reduction to the Company s retained earnings.            Net revenues included in discontinued operations related to DFS were $2,392 million and
$4,290 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.            The results of
discontinued operations include interest expense that was allocated based upon borrowings that were specifically attributable to DFS  operations through intercompany transactions existing prior to the Discover Spin-off. For fiscal 2007 and
fiscal 2006, the amount of interest expense reclassified to discontinued operations was approximately $159 million and $247 million, respectively.              Quilter Holdings Ltd.      On February 28, 2007, the Company sold Quilter Holdings Ltd., its standalone U.K. mass affluent business
that was formerly included within the Global Wealth Management Group business  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 segment. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale. The results for
discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 also included a pre-tax gain of $168 million ($109 million after-tax) on disposition.              Fiscal 2006.               Aircraft Leasing.      On March 24, 2006, the Company completed the sale of its aircraft leasing business to Terra Firma, a European private equity group.            The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 included a loss of $125 million ($75
million after-tax) related to the impact of the finalization of the sales proceeds and balance sheet adjustments related to the closing. Gross revenues from the aircraft leasing business included in discontinued operations was $137 million in fiscal
2006.              Summarized financial information for the Company s
discontinued operations for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006:              The table below provides information regarding amounts included within discontinued operations (dollars in millions):         
           20.    Business
Acquisitions and Dispositions and Sale of Minority Interest.             The
Company s significant business acquisitions, dispositions and sale of minority interest are described below.              Fiscal 2008.                MSCI.      MSCI is a provider of investment decision support tools to investment institutions worldwide and is included within the Institutional Securities business segment. In fiscal
2008, the Company sold approximately 53 million of its MSCI shares in two secondary offerings. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion and recognized pre-tax gains of $1.5 billion, net of professional fee expenses of
approximately $26 million in conjunction with the sales of this investment. As of November 30, 2008, the Company owned approximately 28 million shares of MSCI s class B common stock, representing approximately 66% of the combined
voting power of all classes of MSCI s voting stock.            The Company
consolidates MSCI for financial reporting purposes. The Company may ultimately divest its entire interest in MSCI.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below provides information regarding the MSCI secondary offerings for fiscal 2008 (in millions):
        
            Morgan Stanley Wealth Management
S.V., S.A.U.      In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company sold Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. ( MSWM S.V. ), its Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business. The Company
recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $687 million, net of transaction-related charges of approximately $50 million. The results of MSWM S.V. are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment through the date of sale.
             Fiscal 2007.                MSCI.      On July 31, 2007, the Company announced that
it would sell a minority interest in its subsidiary, MSCI in an initial public offering ( IPO ). In November 2007, MSCI completed its IPO of 16.1 million shares and received net proceeds of approximately $265 million, net of
underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. As the IPO was part of a broader corporate reorganization, contemplated by the Company at the IPO date, the increase in the carrying amount of the Company s investment in MSCI was
recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition and the Company s consolidated statement of changes in shareholders  equity at November 30, 2007.             Fiscal 2006.                Goldfish   .     On February 17, 2006, the Company acquired the Goldfish credit card business in
the U.K. As a result of the Discover Spin-off, the results of Goldfish have been included within discontinued operations. The acquisition price was $1,676 million, which was paid in cash in February 2006. The Company recorded goodwill and other
intangible assets of approximately $370 million in connection with the acquisition.            The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition:         
          The $123 million of acquired
amortizable intangible assets includes customer relationships of $54 million (15-year estimated useful life) and trademarks of $69 million (25-year estimated useful life).       
     The pro forma impact of business acquisitions individually and in the aggregate in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was not material to the
consolidated financial statements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
          21.    Quarterly
Results (unaudited).          

(1)  
  Income from continuing operations includes $120 million ($171 million pre-tax), $0.11 per diluted share, due to the reversal of valuation adjustments related to interest rate
derivatives, and a cumulative negative adjustment of $84 million ($120 million pre-tax), $0.08 per diluted share, resulting from incorrect valuations of a London-based trader s positions related to prior quarters. These amounts are included in
the Institutional Securities business segment.     

(2)  
  Results for the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 included gains of approximately $3.0 billion from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term
and short-term borrowings, gains of approximately $2.3 billion from repurchasing of Company debt, net losses of approximately $1.7 billion associated with loans and lending commitments, mortgage-related writedowns of $1.2 billion, mark-to-market
gains of approximately $1.4 billion after the de-designation of hedges against certain of the Company s debt and charges of $725 million related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. Results for the Company in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2007 included mortgage-related writedowns of $9.4 billion.     

(3)  
  See Note 19 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(4)  
  No losses were allocated to the Equity Units in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 (see Note 2 and Note 12).     

(5)  
  Summation of the quarters  earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share equivalents throughout the
year.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY        
      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    22.     Subsequent Event.              Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Joint Venture.          
  On January 13, 2009, the Company and Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine the Company s Global Wealth
Management Group and Citi s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. The Company will own 51%, and Citi will own 49% of the joint venture, after
the contribution of the respective businesses to the joint venture and the Company s payment of $2.7 billion to Citi. The Company will appoint four directors to the joint venture s board and Citi will appoint two directors. After year
three, the Company and Citi will have various purchase and sales rights for the joint venture. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2009 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The
Company expects to consolidate this joint venture upon closing.             23.    Parent Company.             See pages F-2
through F-8 for condensed financial information of Morgan Stanley (Parent Company Only).               

Table of Contents  

      FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)              Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Revenue          

(1)  
  Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest and dividends revenues.     

(2)  
  Amounts primarily relate to securities financing transaction, which include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, customer
receivables/payables and segregated customer cash. The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity for each of the
Company s separate businesses and is therefore unable to further breakout Interest and dividends and Interest expense (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).           

Table of Contents  

    FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)              Deposits          

(1)  
  Average balances are calculated based upon month-end balances.     

(2)  
  Deposits are primarily located in U.S. offices.               Ratios          

(1)  
  Based on net income applicable to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders  equity.     

(2)  
  Based on net income as a percentage of average total shareholders  equity.     

(3)  
  Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.               Short-term Borrowings          

(1)  
  The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated
activity for each of the Company s separate businesses and is therefore unable to provide weighted average interest rates for Securities sold under repurchase agreements and Securities loaned. See Note 1 and Note 13 of the consolidated
financial statements for further information.     

(2)  
  Average balances are calculated based upon month-end balances.           

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.               None.         

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures.                Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.             Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer,
we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.             Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.             Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.            Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:         

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Morgan Stanley;

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Morgan Stanley s management and directors; and            

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on our financial statements.               Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            Management assessed the effectiveness of Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework . Based on management s assessment and those criteria, management believes that Morgan Stanley maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of November 30, 2008.            Morgan Stanley s
independent registered public accounting firm has audited and issued a report on Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting, which appears below.         

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Morgan Stanley and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of November 30, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of November 30, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial condition of the Company as of November 30, 2008 and the related consolidated statement of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in shareholders 
equity for the year ended November 30, 2008 and our report dated January 28, 2009 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of FASB Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.              /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP               New York, New York      January 28, 2009         

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.             No change in Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting (as such term
is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2008 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.   
   Other Information.               Not applicable.         

Table of Contents  

      Part III          

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.               Information relating to Morgan Stanley s directors and nominees under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s definitive proxy statement for its 2009 annual
meeting of shareholders ( Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement ) is incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors             

Item 1 Election of Directors Board Meetings and Committees                Information relating to Morgan Stanley s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report under  Executive
Officers of Morgan Stanley  and to certain of Morgan Stanley s officers under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and incorporated by reference herein.            Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers
and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on our internet site,
 www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance/ethics.html . We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE, on our internet
site.            Because Morgan Stanley s common stock is listed on the NYSE, its
Chief Executive Officer made his annual certification to the NYSE on April 30, 2008 stating that he was not aware of any violation by Morgan Stanley of the NYSE s corporate governance listing standards. In addition, Morgan Stanley has
filed, as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to be filed with the SEC regarding the quality of
Morgan Stanley s public disclosure.         

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation.               Information relating to director and executive officer compensation under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors Director Compensation             

Item 1 Election of Directors Executive Compensation             

Table of Contents  

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.                Equity Compensation Plan Information.             The following table provides information about stock options outstanding and shares of common stock available for future awards under all of Morgan Stanley s equity
compensation plans as of November 30, 2008. Morgan Stanley has not made any grants of common stock outside of its equity compensation plans.         

(1)      
    Includes the following:      

(a)  
  40,782,233 shares available under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ). Pursuant to this plan, which is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code,
eligible employees may purchase shares of common stock at a discount to market price through regular payroll deduction.     

(b)  
  62,658,524 shares available under the 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan ( EICP ). Awards may consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
restricted stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock (or the value thereof), other awards that are valued by reference to or otherwise based on the fair market value of common stock, and other equity-based or equity-related
awards approved by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee.     

(c)  
  5,508,975 shares available under the Employee Equity Accumulation Plan ( EEAP ), which includes 276,603 shares available for awards of restricted stock and restricted
stock units. Awards may consist of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock (or the value thereof), other awards that are valued by reference to or
otherwise based on the fair market value of common stock, and other equity-based or equity-related awards approved by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee.     

(d)  
  202,103 shares available under the Tax Deferred Equity Participation Plan ( TDEPP ). Awards consist of restricted stock units which are settled by the delivery of shares
of common stock.     

(e)  
  520,673 shares available under the Directors  Equity Capital Accumulation Plan. This plan provides for periodic awards of shares of common stock and stock units to non-employee
directors and also allows non-employee directors to defer the fees they earn from services as a director in the form of stock units.     

(2)      
    22,957 shares available under the Branch Manager Compensation Plan ( BMCP ) and 14,697 shares available under
the Financial Advisor and Investment Representative Compensation Plan ( FAIRCP ). The material features of these plans are described below.      

(3)      
    As of November 30, 2008, approximately 68 million shares were available under the Company s plans that can be used
for the purpose of granting annual employee equity awards (EICP, EEAP, TDEPP, BMCP and FAIRCP). Approximately 28 million shares were granted in December 2008 as part of fiscal 2008 employee incentive compensation.            

Table of Contents  

   The material features of Morgan Stanley s equity compensation plans that have not been approved by shareholders
under SEC rules (BMCP and FAIRCP) are described below. The following descriptions do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the plan documents. All plans through which awards may currently be granted are
included as exhibits to this report.              BMCP.      Branch managers in the Global Wealth Management Group are eligible to receive awards under BMCP. Awards under BMCP may consist of cash awards, restricted stock and restricted stock units to be
settled by the delivery of shares of common stock.              FAIRCP.      Financial advisors and investment representatives in the Global Wealth Management Group are eligible to receive awards under FAIRCP. Awards under FAIRCP may consist of cash awards, restricted
stock and restricted stock units to be settled by the delivery of shares of common stock.             * * *             Other information relating to
security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the caption  Beneficial Ownership of Company Common Stock  in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.               Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is
incorporated by reference herein.         

Other Matters Certain Transactions                Information relating to director independence is set forth under the caption  Item 1 Election of Directors Corporate Governance Director
Independence  in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services.               Information regarding principal accountant fees and services under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 2 Ratification of Appointment of Morgan Stanley s Independent Auditor  (excluding the information under the subheading  Audit
Committee Report )            

Table of Contents  

      Part IV          

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.                 Documents filed as part of this report.           

The financial statements required to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1.            

The financial statement schedules required to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1.            

An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference.            

Table of Contents  

      Signatures             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 28, 2009.          

M ORGAN  S TANLEY      ( REGISTRANT )    

By:  
     
    /s/    J OHN  J.
M ACK             

(John J. Mack)     Chairman of the Board and  
  Chief Executive Officer    
 
          Power of
Attorney             We, the undersigned, hereby severally constitute Colm Kelleher,
Gary G. Lynch, and Martin M. Cohen, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 28th day of January, 2009.         

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    J OHN  J.
M ACK              (John J. Mack)   
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    C OLM 
K ELLEHER              (Colm Kelleher)   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    P AUL  C.
W IRTH              (Paul C. Wirth)   
      
    Controller and Principal Accounting Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

/s/    R OY  J.
B OSTOCK              (Roy J. Bostock)   
      
  Director   

/s/    E RSKINE  B.
B OWLES              (Erskine B. Bowles)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H OWARD  J.
D AVIES              (Howard J. Davies)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C. R OBERT 
K IDDER              (C. Robert Kidder)   
      
  Director   

/s/    D ONALD  T.
N ICOLAISEN              (Donald T. Nicolaisen)   
      
  Director   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    C HARLES  H.
N OSKI              (Charles H. Noski)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H UTHAM  S.
O LAYAN              (Hutham S. Olayan)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C HARLES  E. P HILLIPS ,
J R .             (Charles E. Phillips, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

/s/    O. G RIFFITH 
S EXTON              (O. Griffith Sexton)   
      
  Director   

/s/    L AURA  D A NDREA 
T YSON              (Laura D Andrea Tyson)   
      
  Director   

Table of Contents  

      INDEX   TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        ITEMS
(15)(a)(1) AND (15)(a)(2)          
       
   F-1     

Table of Contents  

      SCHEDULE I              MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company Only)              Condensed Statements
of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to Condensed
Financial Statements.         
   F-2     

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE I          
   MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company
Only)              Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive
Income        (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes to Condensed
Financial Statements.         
   F-3     

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE I          
   MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company
Only)              Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
       (dollars in millions)          
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH
FLOW INFORMATION             Cash payments for interest were $8,174 million, $8,590
million and $6,230 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.            Cash (refund) payments for income taxes were $(688) million, $847 million and $1,517 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.            See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.       
  
   F-4     

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY        (Parent Company Only)              NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation.               Basis of Financial Information.   The accompanying condensed financial statements (the  Parent Company Financial Statements ), including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) and the notes thereto found on pages 113 to 188 in this Form 10-K.            The Parent Company Financial Statements for the 12 months ended November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ), November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 )
and November 30, 2006 ( fiscal 2006 ) are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding valuations of certain financial
instruments, the potential outcome of litigation and other matters that affect the Parent Company Financial Statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial
Statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.              Accounting Developments.               Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.     In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48 on December 1, 2007, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $92 million as a decrease to the opening balance of Retained earnings
as of December 1, 2007.             Employee Benefit
Plans.     In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ). In fiscal 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158 s requirement to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability. In the
first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $13 million ($21 million pre-tax) to Shareholders  equity upon early adoption of SFAS No. 158 s other requirement to use the fiscal year-end date
as the measurement date.             Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
Contracts.     In April 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FIN 39-1,  Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 , ( FSP FIN 39-1 ). FSP FIN 39-1 amends certain provisions of
FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts,  and permits companies to offset fair value amounts recognized for cash collateral receivables or payables against fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions
executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. In accordance with the provisions of FSP FIN 39-1, the Company offset cash collateral receivables and payables against net derivative positions as of November 30,
2008. The adoption of FSP FIN 39-1 on December 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.     In June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax
Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards  ( EITF No. 06-11 ). EITF No. 06-11 requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units that are expected to vest be recorded as an
increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company currently accounts for this tax benefit as a reduction to its income tax provision. EITF No. 06-11 is to be applied prospectively for tax  
       
   F-5     

Table of Contents  

benefits on dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007 and interim periods within these years. The Company does not expect the
adoption of EITF No. 06-11 to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Business Combinations .    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS
No. 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction (whether a full or partial acquisition); establishes the
acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; requires expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the
information needed to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) applies to all transactions or other events in which the Company obtains control of one or more businesses, including
those sometimes referred to as  true mergers  or  mergers of equals  and combinations achieved without the transfer of consideration, for example, by contract alone or through the lapse of minority veto rights. SFAS
No. 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008.             Noncontrolling Interests .    In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51  ( SFAS No. 160 ). SFAS No. 160 requires reporting entities to present
noncontrolling (minority) interests as equity (as opposed to as a liability or mezzanine equity) and provides guidance on the accounting for transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 160 applies prospectively for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The presentation and disclosure requirements, however, are to be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential
impact of adopting SFAS No. 160.             Transfers of Financial Assets and
Repurchase Financing Transactions.     In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions  ( FSP FAS No. 140-3 ). The
objective of FSP FAS No. 140-3 is to provide implementation guidance on accounting for a transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing. Under the guidance in FSP FAS No. 140-3, there is a presumption that an initial transfer of a financial
asset and a repurchase financing are considered part of the same arrangement ( i.e.,  a linked transaction) for purposes of evaluation under SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment
of Liabilities  ( SFAS No. 140 ). If certain criteria are met, however, the initial transfer and repurchase financing shall not be evaluated as a linked transaction and shall be evaluated separately under SFAS No. 140. FSP
FAS No. 140-3 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP FAS 140-3 to have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.             Disclosures about
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities .    In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 
( SFAS No. 161 ). SFAS No. 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , and requires entities to provide enhanced qualitative
disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair values and amounts of gains and losses on derivative contracts, and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative
agreements. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008.             Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.     In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life
of Intangible Assets  ( FSP FAS 142-3 ). FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ( SFAS No. 142 ) for an entity to consider, when determining the
useful life of an acquired intangible asset, whether the intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions associated with the intangible asset. FSP FAS 142-3 replaces the
previous useful-life assessment criteria with a requirement that an entity shall  
       
   F-6     

Table of Contents  

consider its own experience in renewing similar arrangements. If the entity has no relevant experience, it would consider market participant assumptions
regarding renewal. FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP FAS 142-3 to have a material impact on the
Company s consolidated financial statements.             Earnings Per
Share.     In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities  ( FSP EITF 03-6-1 ). FSP EITF 03-6-1
addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class method as
described in SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share.  Under the guidance in FSP EITF 03-6-1, unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are
participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal
years. All prior-period earnings per share data presented shall be adjusted retrospectively. The Company currently expects the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 to reduce basic earnings per share by $0.09, $0.16 and $0.42 for fiscal
2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively, and to reduce diluted earnings per share by $0.06, $0.08 and $0.22 for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.            Instruments Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock.     In June
2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF on Issue No. 07-5,  Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock  ( EITF No. 07-5 ). EITF No. 07-5
provides guidance for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock. EITF No. 07-5 applies to any freestanding financial instrument or embedded feature that has all of
the characteristics of a derivative or freestanding instrument that is potentially settled in an entity s own stock (with the exception of share-based payment awards within the scope of SFAS 123(R)). To meet the definition of  indexed
to own stock,  an instrument s contingent exercise provisions must not be based on (a) an observable market, other than the market for the issuer s stock (if applicable), or (b) an observable index, other than an index
calculated or measured solely by reference to the issuer s own operations, and the variables that could affect the settlement amount must be inputs to the fair value of a  fixed-for-fixed  forward or option on equity shares. EITF
No. 07-5 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF No. 07-5 to change the classification or measurement of its
financial instruments.             Fair Value
Measurements.     On October 10, 2008 the FASB issued FSP FAS 157 3,  Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active  (FSP FAS 157 3).
FSP FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial instrument when the market for that financial asset is
not active. The FSP was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. The adoption of FSP FAS 157 3 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements.             Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities and Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.     In September 2008, the FASB issued for comment revisions to SFAS No. 140 and FASB Interpretation No. 46, as revised ( FIN 46R ),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  The changes proposed include a removal of the scope exemption from FIN 46R for QSPEs, a revision of the current risks and rewards-based FIN 46R consolidation model to a qualitative model based
on control and a requirement that consolidation of VIEs be reevaluated on an ongoing basis. Although the revised standards have not yet been finalized, these changes may have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements as the Company may be required to consolidate QSPEs to which the Company has previously sold assets. In addition, the Company may also be required to consolidate other VIEs that are not currently consolidated based on an
analysis under the current FIN 46R consolidation model. The proposed revisions would be effective for fiscal years that begin after November 15, 2009.         
   Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets.     In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employer s
Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1). FSP FAS 132(R)-1  
       
   F-7     

Table of Contents  

amends SFAS No. 132 (Revised 2003),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits , to provide guidance on an
employer s disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The disclosures about plan assets required by this FSP shall be provided for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.             Disclosures about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest
Entities .    In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,  Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest
Entities  ( FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 ). FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 amends FAS 140 and FIN 46(R) to require additional disclosures regarding transfers of financial assets and interest in variable interest
entities. FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 is effective for interim or annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008.             2.    Transactions with Subsidiaries.             The Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and contractual
obligations of certain of its consolidated subsidiaries.            The Company received
cash dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries totaling $4,209 million, $6,975 million and $1,838 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.       
      3.    Guarantees.             In the normal course of its business, the Company guarantees certain of its subsidiaries  obligations under derivative and other financial arrangements. The Company
records all derivative contracts and Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased at fair value on its consolidated statements of financial condition.            The Company also, in the normal course of its business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries for
taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions and certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax
laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company
could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that
would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.            The Company has issued
guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Company may be required to pay the financial
obligations of its subsidiaries related to business transacted on or with the exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Company has not recorded any
contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these arrangements and believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements is remote.            The Company guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments totaled $5.6 billion and the
warrants totaled $0.3 billion at November 30, 2008. In connection with subsidiary lease obligations, the Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. At November 30, 2008, the Company had $1.6 billion outstanding under subsidiary
lease obligations, primarily in the United Kingdom.             4.    Commitments and Contingencies.             For
a discussion of the Company s commitments and contingencies, see Note 9 to the Company s consolidated financial statements.             5.    Shareholders  Equity.             For a discussion of shareholders  equity, including preferred stock issued in fiscal 2008, see Note 11 to the Company s consolidated financial statements.
        
   F-8     

Table of Contents  

          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan
Stanley:            We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Morgan
Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of November 30, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2008 and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
November 30, 2008, and have issued our reports thereon dated January 28, 2009 (such report on the consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  ( SFAS No. 157 ) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS No. 159 ) and, an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  ( SFAS No. 158 ) and, an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of FASB
Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48  such consolidated financial statements and reports are included in this 2008 Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our audits also included Schedule I listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.            As discussed in Note 1 to the condensed financial statements, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.             As discussed in Note 1 to the condensed financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).             Also, as
discussed in Note 1 to the condensed financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB statement No. 109.              /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP       New York, New York      January 28, 2009         
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549            EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K             For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008       Commission File No. 1-11758           

Table of Contents  

      Exhibit Index             Certain of the following exhibits, as
indicated parenthetically, were previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor
companies under the Exchange Act, respectively, and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley s Exchange Act file number is 1-11758. The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a
predecessor company ( MSG ), was 1-9085.   1            

Exhibit     No.   
      
     Description     
 
  3.1  
      
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 8, 2008).   

3.2  
      
  Amended Certificate of Designations of Preferences and Rights of the 10% Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 13, 2008).   

3.3  
      
  Certificate of Designations of Preferences and Rights of the 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.2 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated October 13, 2008).   

3.4  
      
  Certificate of Designations of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D (Exhibit 3.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 26,
2008).   

3.5  
      
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 16, 2008).   

4.1  
      
  Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-57202)).

4.2  
      
  Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-e to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on
Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289) as amended by Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).   

4.3  
      
  Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A
(No. 333-117752), as amended by First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 (Exhibit 4.5 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007), Second Supplemental Senior
Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 2008), Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2008) and Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 2008).   

4.4  
      
  The Unit Agreement Without Holders  Obligations, dated as of August 29, 2008, between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Unit Agent, as Trustee and Paying Agent under the
Senior Indenture referred to therein and as Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement referred to therein (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2008).   

(1)  
  For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to  The Bank of New York  mean in some instances the entity successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association; references to  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to Chemical Bank; references to  J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago.           
   E-1     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit     No.   
      
     Description     

4.5  
      
  Amended and Restated Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement
on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).   

4.6  
      
  Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-g to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A
(No. 333-117752)).   

4.7  
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 28, 1998).   

4.8  
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-ww to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form
S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).   

4.9  
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 12, 2006).   

4.10  
      
  Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to
Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).   

4.11  
      
  Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.12 hereto).   

4.12  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III dated as of February 27, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee, and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003).   

4.13  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV dated as of April 21, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of New
York (Delaware), as Delaware Trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003).   

4.14  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V dated as of July 16, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of New
York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2003).   

4.15  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI dated as of January 26, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006).   

4.16  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII dated as of October 12, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).   

4.17  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII dated as of April 26, 2007 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The Bank of
New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007).   
       
   E-2     

Table of Contents  

E-3     

Table of Contents  

E-4     

Table of Contents  

E-5     

Table of Contents  

E-6     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       No.    
      
     Description     

10.45      
      
  Morgan Stanley Performance Formula and Provisions (Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).   

10.46      
      
  2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan as amended and restated as of November 26, 2007 (Exhibit 10.39 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30,
2007).   

10.47 *   
      
  Morgan Stanley 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan as amended and restated as of November 28, 2008.   

10.48      
      
  Form of Award Certificate under the 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan (Exhibit 10.7 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 29, 2008).

10.49 *   
      
  Morgan Stanley 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan as amended and restated as of November 28, 2008.   

10.50      
      
  Form of Award Certificate under the 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan for Certain Management Committee Members (Exhibit 10.8 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 29, 2008).   

10.51      
      
  Form of Award Certificate for Discretionary Retention Awards of Stock Units to Certain Management Committee Members (Exhibit 10.10 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended February 29, 2008).   

10.52      
      
  Governmental Service Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option and Stock Unit Awards (replacing and superseding in its entirety Exhibit 10.3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended May 31, 2007) (Exhibit 10.41 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).   

10.53 *   
      
  Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option and Stock Unit Awards.   

10.54 *   
      
  Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan.   

10.55 *   
      
  Form of Executive Waiver.   

10.56 *   
      
  Form of Executive Letter Agreement.   

11            
      
  Statement Re: Computation of Earnings Per Common Share (The calculation of per share earnings is in Part II, Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Earnings per Share) and is
omitted in accordance with Section (b)(11) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K).   

12*          
      
  Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.   

21*          
      
  Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley.   

23.1*       
      
  Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP.   

24            
      
  Powers of Attorney (included on signature page).   

31.1**     
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

31.2**     
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

32.1**     
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.   

32.2**     
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.   

*       Filed herewith.     **     Furnished herewith.             Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b).    
       
   E-7     

Table of Contents  

<EX-10.12>
 2
 dex1012.htm
 AMENDMENT TO MORGAN STANLEY 401(K) PLAN, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 22, 2008

Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, dated as of December 22, 2008 

EXHIBIT 10.12        AMENDMENT TO        401(k) PLAN       Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) as
follows:      1. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended to delete the definitions of  After-Tax
Adjustment Contributions  and  Securities Employee.       2. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is
amended by replacing clause (f) in the first paragraph of the definition of  Earnings  with the following:       (f) amounts
paid more than 30 days after the date on which the Participant s employment with the Affiliated Group terminates,       3. Effective
September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of the first paragraph of the definition of  Earnings :       Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will Earnings include amounts that are not considered  compensation  for purposes of Code
section 415 and the regulations promulgated thereunder.       4. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended
by deleting the phrase  who is a Securities Employee or  in the definition of  Eligible IIG Employee  and replacing it with the words  or who is .      5. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the following to the end of the definition of  Employee :
      to the extent required by Code section 414(n).       6. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by replacing the phrase  20 or more hours per week  each place it appears in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of
 Entry Date  with the phrase  at least one half of the standard work week at his or her business unit, as determined by the Plan Administrator .      7. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by deleting the first sentence of the definition of  Matched Contributions  and replacing it with the following:          Matched Contributions   means Pre-Tax Contributions and Roth Elective Deferrals.          
   1   

8. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the following to
the end of the definitions of  IIG Participant,   MS Participant  and  Participant :       and whose
participation has not terminated pursuant to Section 3(c)       9. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is
amended by adding the following to the end of the definition of  Qualified Matching Contributions :       and designated by the
Plan Administrator as Qualified Matching Contributions.       10. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended
by adding the following to the end of the definition of  Qualified Non-Elective Contributions :       and designated by the Plan
Administrator as Qualified Non-Elective Contributions.       11. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended
by adding the following to the end of the definition of  Release :       and designated by the Plan Administrator as a
Release.       12. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of
the definition of  Testing Compensation :       Any base salary, cash bonuses, commissions, overtime or other regular
compensation paid after a Participant s severance from employment may be included in Testing Compensation to the extent permitted by Code section 415(c) and the regulations thereunder and designated by the Plan Administrator on a
nondiscriminatory basis.       14. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by adding the phrase  the
inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of  in the first sentence of the definition of  Total and Permanent Disability  immediately preceding the phrase  medically determinable.       15. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 2, Definitions is amended by inserting the following new definitions:          Applicable Disaster Date   means the day or days on which the event (such as a storm, tornado or flooding) giving rise to a
presidentially-declared disaster takes place.         
   2   

Qualified Disaster Recovery Assistance Distribution   means, effective
September 1, 2008, a distribution made to an individual after an Applicable Disaster Date, and before January 1, 2010, whose principal residence on the Applicable Disaster Date is located in an area declared to be a disaster area and who
sustained an economic loss as a result of such disaster. A Qualified Disaster Recovery Assistance Distribution is limited to a maximum of $100,000 and shall be subject to such other conditions and limitations as may be provided by statute or in
other applicable guidance or as may be determined by the Plan Administrator on a nondiscriminatory basis.          Qualified
Reservist Distribution   means, a distribution under Section 12(h) made to a Participant who is on active duty in the uniformed services for a period of more than 30 days that is a  qualified reservist distribution  under Code
section 72(t)(2)(G)(iii).       16. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 3(a), Commencement of Participation, is amended by
replacing the phrase  20 or more hours per week  each place it appears in subsection (ii) with the phrase   at least one half of the standard work week at his or her business unit, as determined by the Plan Administrator. 
     17. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 5(b), After-Tax Adjustment Contributions, shall be deleted.      18. Effective September 1, 2008, Sections 5(c) through (l) inclusive are redesignated as Sections 5(b) through (k), inclusive, and all
references in the Plan to such sections are redesignated accordingly.      19. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated
Section 5(b), Changing the Rate and Suspension of Employee Contributions, is amended by deleting the second sentence thereof.      20.
Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated Section 5(d), Distribution of Excess Elective Deferrals, is amended by deleting the phrase  or recharacterized under Section 5(g)(ii)  from the fourth sentence thereof.
     21. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated Section 5(f), Distribution of Excess Contributions, is amended by deleting
subsection (ii) thereof and redesignating subsection (iii) as subsection (ii).         
   3   

22. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated section 5(f)(ii) is amended by deleting the phrase
 or re-characterized under Section 5(g)(ii)  therefrom.      23. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated
Section 5(g)(i) is amended by deleting the phrase  After-Tax Adjustment Contributions and  from the first sentence thereof.      24. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated Section 5(g)(i) is amended by deleting the phrase  sum of the After-Tax Adjustment Contributions and  from the second sentence of the last paragraph thereof.   
  25. Effective September 1, 2008, newly designated Section 5(h)(iii) is amended to read as follows:       (iii) Amounts distributed under this Section 5(h) shall be withdrawn from amounts attributable to Matching Contributions made on behalf of the
Participant.       26. Effective [January 1, 2008/ September 1, 2008], newly designated Section 5(j), Rollover
Contributions, is amended by deleting the second paragraph thereof.      27. Effective September 1, 2008, the last paragraph of
Section 7(b)(ii)(2) of the 401(k) Plan, Investment of the Trust Fund, is amended by deleting the reference to  December 31, 2008  therein and inserting  December 31, 2009  therefor.      28. Effective September 1, 2008, the last sentence in Section 7(d)(i) is amended by adding the following clause to the end thereof:   
   each of which shall be intended to be a  qualified default investment alternative  within the meaning of DOL Regulation section Labor
Department Regulation   2550.404c-5.       29. Effective September 1, 2008, subsection 7(d)(iii)(1) is amended to read as
follows:       Each eligible Participant shall have the right to elect that the portion of his or her Account invested in the Morgan
Stanley Stock Fund that is attributable to Qualified Non-elective or Qualified Matching Contributions, or any other Company Contributions made in the form of Morgan Stanley Stock or directed by the Company to be invested in the Morgan Stanley Stock
Fund (with the investment units held in such portion of the Participant s Account referred below to as  Mandatory Units ), be disposed of and the proceeds thereof transferred to another available investment under the Plan. For this
purpose, prior to September 1,  
       
   4   

2008, an eligible Participant means any Participant who has attained age 55 or, after December 31, 2006, is credited with at least three Years of
Service, and on and after September 1, 2008, an eligible Participant means any Participant.       30. Effective September 1,
2008, subsection 7(d)(iii)(2) is amended by adding the phrase  Prior to September 1, 2008,  at the beginning thereof.      31.
Effective January 1, 2009, the first sentence of Section 12(c), Source and Amount of Withdrawal, is amended by inserting the phrase  or a Qualified Reservist Distribution  immediately after the phrase  including a hardship
withdrawal .      32. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 12(f)(v), Hardship, is amended by redesignating subsections
(7) and (8) as subsections (8) and (9) respectively and by inserting a new subsection (7) as follows:       (7) a
Qualified Disaster Recovery Assistance Distribution. ,      33. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 12(h), Qualified
Reservist Distribution is inserted as follows:       (h)  Qualified Reservist Distribution . An eligible Participant may request a
Qualified Reservist Distribution on or after January 1, 2009. In the case of a Participant who receives a Qualified Reservist Distribution, such Participant shall not be eligible to make elective or employee contributions to this Plan or any
other plan of a Participating Company during the 6-month period following such Qualified Reservist Distribution.       34. Effective
September 1, 2008, Section 13(b)(ii), Disposition of Excess Amounts is amended by adding the following new subsection (3) at the end thereof:       (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the correction methods described in this Section 13(b)(ii) shall be used only to the extent
permitted under Code section 415.       35. Effective September 1, 2008, Section 16(a), Claims, is amended by deleting the words
 two or more individuals  and replacing them with the words  at least one individual.       36. Effective September 1,
2008, Section 17(a), Establishment of Benefit Plan Appeals Committee, is amended by deleting the words  three or more individuals  and replacing them with the words  at least one individual.          
   5   

37. Effective January 1, 2008, Appendix B, Morgan Stanley Participating Companies, is amended by
adding the following to the end of the third paragraph of the  Kearny Realty Investors  section thereof:       Effective
January 1, 2008, a joint and 75% survivor annuity shall also be available to such a former participant in the Kearny 401(k) Plan.       38. Effective January 1, 2008, Supplement A, Top-Heavy Provisions, is amended by adding the following to the end of Section 1(b) thereof:       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a top heavy minimum benefit is due to a non-Key Employee who is also a participant in the Morgan Stanley Employees Retirement Plan (the  Pension Plan ), it shall be
provided under the Pension Plan and not under this Plan.       39. Effective January 1, 2008, Supplement A, Top-Heavy Provisions, and
Supplement D, Historical Distribution Provisions, are each amended by replacing the phrase  separation from service  each time such phrase appears therein with the phrase  severance from employment.       40. Effective September 1, 2008, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto Rico, is amended by replacing the reference to 10% in
Section 5(a) thereof with references to 30% and by deleting Section 5(b) thereof and by redesignating Sections 5(c) through 5(k) as Sections 5(b) through 5(j) respectively, and by redesignating all references in the Plan to such sections
accordingly.      46. Effective September 1, 2008, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto Rico, is amended by deleting the second
sentence of newly designated Section 5(b) thereof.      47. Effective September 1, 2008, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto
Rico, is amended by deleting newly designated Section 5(f)(2) and redesignating Section 5(f)(3) as Section 5(f)(2).      48.
Effective September 1, 2008, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto Rico, is amended by deleting the phrase  or recharacterized under Section 5(g)(2)  from newly designated Section 5(f)(2).      49. Effective September 1, 2008, Supplement B, Participants Residing in Puerto Rico, is amended by replacing the phrase  , After-Tax and
After-Tax Adjustment Contributions  with the phrase  and After-Tax Contributions  in newly designated Section 5(g).      *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *         
   6   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused
this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 22   nd    day of December, 2008.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
    /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY    
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources   

7   

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.20>
 3
 dex1020.htm
 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF FEBRUARY 1, 2009

Employee Stock Purchase Plan amended and restated as of February 1, 2009 

EXHIBIT 10.20        MORGAN STANLEY        EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN        Amended as of February 1, 2009         SECTION 1
- - PURPOSE        The purpose of the Plan is to secure for the Company and its stockholders the benefits of the incentive inherent in the ownership of
Common Stock by current and future Eligible Employees. The Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Code Section 423 and shall be administered, interpreted and construed in accordance with such provisions.        SECTION 2 - DEFINITIONS        When used herein, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:       

2.1  
    Administrator   means the Board of Directors or such officer or officers of the Company or such committee (which need not be a committee of the Board of Directors,
but, if not a committee of the Board of Directors, then the committee shall be comprised solely of officers of the Company) to whom the Board of Directors delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with Section 12.1.

2.2  
    Beneficiary   means such person, persons, or entity as are designated pursuant to Section 12.5 to receive, upon a participant s death, all or a portion of
such Participant s Common Stock Account and Payroll Deduction Account.         

2.3  
    Board of Directors   means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any committee of such Board of Directors as the Board of Directors may determine from time to
time.         

2.4  
    Bonus Investment Date   means the payroll date on which the Company pays year-end cash bonuses to its employees generally.         

2.5  
    Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor statute thereto.         

2.6  
    Common Stock   means common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.         

2.7  
    Common Stock Account   means the account established with, and maintained by, the Custodian for the purpose of holding Common Stock purchased pursuant to this Plan.

2.8  
    Company   means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, and its successors and assigns.         

2.9  
    Custodian   means the agent selected by the Company to hold Common Stock purchased under the Plan.           
   1   

2.10  
    Disability   means disability as defined under any qualified, defined benefit plan sponsored by the Company or any Subsidiary in which an Eligible Employee is a
participant on the date such Eligible Employee terminates employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.         

2.11  
    Eligible Compensation   means the sum of the types and amounts of compensation determined from time to time by the Administrator in its sole discretion to be
eligible to be taken into account under the Plan, provided that no such determination shall include or exclude any type or amount of compensation contrary to the requirements of Section 423 of the Code and any regulations promulgated
thereunder.         

2.12  
    Eligible Employee   means all employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries that have been designated as eligible to participate in the Plan pursuant to and in
accordance with rules prescribed by the Administrator from time to time, which rules, however, shall neither permit nor deny participation in the Plan contrary to the requirements of the Code (including, but not limited to, Section 423(b)(3),
(4), (5), and (8) thereof) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.         

2.13  
    Fair Market Value   means the volume weighted average price of the Common Stock on the date in question, reflecting composite trading between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. EST on such date, and as reported by The Bloomberg Professional Service on the MS Equity Volume At Price page under the  VWAP  field, at 4:00 p.m. on such date (or if such information is not available from The Bloomberg Professional
Service on the date in question, then the volume weighted average price of the Common Stock on such date as reported by a different third party source to which the Firm has access); or if the Common Stock shall not have been traded on such date,
such volume weighted average price of the Common Stock on the immediately following day on which the Common Stock was so traded; or, if the Common Stock was not so traded, such other amount as may be determined by the Board of Directors in its sole
discretion.         

2.14  
    Investment Date   means the last trading day of each month and, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the Bonus Investment Date.     

2.15  
    Offering Period   means the period beginning on the day following an Investment Date and continuing through the following Investment Date.     

2.16  
    Participant   means an Eligible Employee who has met the requirements of Section 3 and has elected to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 4.1.

2.18  
    Payroll Deduction Account   means the bookkeeping entry established by the Company for each Participant pursuant to Section 4.3.         

2.18  
    Plan   means the Morgan Stanley Employee Stock Purchase Plan as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.           
   2   

2.20  
    Retirement   means retirement as defined by any qualified or non-qualified defined benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary in which an Eligible
Employee is a participant on the date such Eligible Employee terminates employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.         

2.21  
    Subsidiary   means any corporation designated by the Administrator which constitutes a  subsidiary  of the Company, within the meaning of Code
Section 424(f).          SECTION 3 - ELIGIBILITY         

3.1   
    General Rule  . Subject to Section 3.3, each Eligible Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan beginning on the later of (i) the Eligible
Employee s date of hire by the Company or any Subsidiary and (ii) the date such employee becomes an Eligible Employee. Each Eligible Employee who is first hired by the Company or a Subsidiary on or after April 1, 2002 shall be
eligible to participate in the Plan beginning on the later of (i) the first day of the month following the date the employee has completed one year of service for the Company and its Subsidiaries, provided that he is employed on such date, and
(ii) the date such employee becomes an Eligible Employee. Pursuant to rules established by the Administrator, all periods of employment, whether or not consecutive, shall be aggregated in determining whether an employee has completed one year
of service for the Company and its Subsidiaries. An Eligible Employee who has met the requirements of this Section 3.1 and who ceases to be an Eligible Employee shall again become eligible to participate in the Plan when he again becomes an
Eligible Employee.         

3.2   
    Leave of Absence  . Unless the Administrator otherwise determines, a Participant on a paid leave of absence shall continue to be a Participant in the Plan so long as
such Participant is on such paid leave of absence. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, a Participant on an unpaid leave of absence shall not be entitled to participate in any offering commencing after such unpaid leave has begun but
shall not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan. A Participant who, upon failing to return to work following a leave of absence, is deemed not to be an employee, shall not be entitled to participate in any offering
commencing after such termination of employment, and such Participant s Payroll Deduction Account shall be paid out in accordance with Section 6.2.         

3.3    
      Termination of Employment  . A Participant whose employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates
shall cease to be an Eligible Employee as of, and no options shall be granted to such Participant pursuant to Section 5.2 following, the date of the Participant s termination of employment. A Participant whose employment with the Company
and its Subsidiaries has terminated may request a refund of any uninvested balance in such Participant s Payroll Deduction Account, and such amount will be refunded to the Participant (rather than being applied to the purchase of shares of
Common Stock) as soon as administratively practicable provided that the Company receives such request prior to the 10   th    day immediately preceding
the end of the applicable Offering Period.            
   3   

3.4   
    Common Stock Account  . As a condition to participation in this Plan, each Eligible Employee shall be required to hold shares purchased hereunder in a Common Stock
Account and such employee s decision to participate in the Plan shall constitute the appointment of the Custodian as custodial agent for the purpose of holding such shares. Such Common Stock Account will be governed by, and subject to, the
terms and conditions hereof and of a written agreement between the Company and the Custodian.          SECTION 4 - PARTICIPATION AND PAYROLL
DEDUCTIONS         

4.1   
    Enrollment .  Each Eligible Employee may elect to participate in the Plan for a Plan Year by completing a Company-specified enrollment process. Upon completing the
enrollment process, an Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the Plan on the next practicable Investment Date. Each Eligible Employee shall be advised of the purchase price (expressed as a percentage of Fair Market Value) determined
under Section 5.2(b) before enrolling in the Plan.         

4.2   
    Amount of Deduction  . When enrolling, the Eligible Employee shall specify a payroll deduction amount of a percentage (in whole numbers) of Eligible Compensation which
shall be withheld from such Eligible Employee s regular paychecks, including bonus paychecks, for the Plan Year,  provided, however , that the Administrator may determine and specify, from time to time, (i) the range of permissible
percentages of Eligible Compensation an Eligible Employee may specify to be withheld and (ii) the maximum amount, if any, of Eligible Compensation that may be deducted for an Eligible Employee in any Plan Year, and provided further, that no
such determination shall be contrary to the requirements of Code Section 423 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may authorize payment in respect of any option exercised hereunder by personal
check.         

4.3   
    Payroll Deduction Accounts  . Each Participant s payroll deduction shall be credited, as soon as administratively practicable following the relevant pay date, to a
Payroll Deduction Account, pending the purchase of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. All such amounts shall be assets of the Company and may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose. No interest shall accrue or be
paid on amounts credited to a Payroll Deduction Account.         

4.4   
    Subsequent Plan Years  .         

(a)  
  Subject to Section 4.4(b), unless otherwise specified prior to the beginning of any Plan Year by completing a Company-specified process, a Participant shall be deemed to have
elected to participate in each subsequent Plan Year for which the Participant is eligible to the same extent and in the same manner as at the end of the prior Plan Year.           
   4   

(b)  
  If, as of the last trading day of any Plan Year, a Participant s Common Stock Account is credited with fewer than five shares of Common Stock and no amounts have been credited
to the Participant s Payroll Deduction Account for the first Offering Period immediately following such Plan Year, then, notwithstanding Section 10.3 or anything else herein to the contrary, the Administrator shall sell or arrange for the
sale of the shares of Common Stock credited to the Participants Common Stock Account and shall pay the proceeds of such sale to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following such sale. A Participant to whom this
Section 4.4(b) applies shall be deemed to have elected not to participate in the Plan for the subsequent Plan Year but shall be eligible to recommence participation in accordance with the other terms of the Plan.         

4.5   
    Changes in Participation  .         

(a)  
  At any time during a Plan Year, a Participant may cease participation in the Plan by completing a Company-specified process. Such cessation will become effective on the first day of
the first pay period following the completion of such process to which it may be practically applied, whereupon no further payroll deductions will be made and the Company shall pay to such Participant an amount equal to the balance in the
Participant s Payroll Deduction Account as soon as administratively practicable thereafter. To the extent then an Eligible Employee, any Participant who ceased to participate may elect to participate again by completing a Company-specified
process. Such resumption of participation will become effective on the first day of the first pay period following the completion of such process to which it may be practically applied.         

(b)  
  At any time during a Plan Year, a Participant may increase or decrease the percentage of Eligible Compensation subject to payroll deduction within the limits approved by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 4.2 by completing a Company-specified process. Such increase or decrease shall become effective on the first day of the first pay period following the completion of such process to which it may be practically
applied. Notwithstanding any increase in the percentage of Eligible Compensation subject to pay deduction pursuant to this Section 4.5(b), in no event may the amount of Eligible Compensation deducted for an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year
exceed the maximum amount authorized to be deducted pursuant to Section 4.2.         

(c)  
  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event the Board of Directors determines under Section 5.2(b) to change the purchase price of a share of Common Stock,
each Participant shall be advised in advance of the effective date of such change and afforded the opportunity to make a change in participation under Section 4.5(a) or 4.5(b) before such change in the purchase price takes effect.
         SECTION 5 - OFFERINGS         

5.1   
    Maximum Number of Shares  . The Plan will be implemented by making offerings of Common Stock on each Investment Date until the maximum number of shares of Common Stock
available under the Plan have been issued pursuant to the exercise of options.           
   5   

5.2   
    Grant and Exercise of Options           

(a)  
  Subject to Section 5.3, on the first day of each Offering Period, each Participant shall be deemed, subject to Section 5.4, to have been granted an option to purchase the
number of shares of Common Stock to be determined on the Investment Date for such Offering Period by dividing the amount credited to the Participant s Payroll Deduction Account on such Investment Date by the purchase price (as determined in
paragraph (b) below);  provided ,  however , that no such option shall give any Participant the right to purchase more than 1,000 shares as of the relevant Investment Date. Without any further action, the Participant shall be deemed
to have exercised such option and purchased the number of shares of Common Stock so determined as of the relevant Investment Date. If the number of shares determined by dividing the amount credited to the Participant s Payroll Deduction Account
on any Investment Date by the purchase price exceeds 1,000, the amount credited to the Participant s Payroll Deduction Account corresponding to the excess over 1,000 shares shall be applied to the next offering. All shares purchased under the
Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Common Stock Account.         

(b)  
  The purchase price for each share of Common Stock shall be expressed as a percentage of Fair Market Value on the Investment Date and shall be determined from time to time by the
Board of Directors, but in no event shall such purchase price be less than 85 percent of the Fair Market Value of such share on the Investment Date.         

5.3   
    Oversubscription of Shares  . If the total number of shares for which options are exercised on any Investment Date exceeds the maximum number of shares available for the
applicable offering, the Company shall make an allocation of the shares available for delivery and distribution among the Participants in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be practicable, and the balance of all amounts credited to the Payroll
Deduction Accounts shall be applied to the next offering.         

5.4   
    Limitations on Grant and Exercise of Options           

(a)  
  No option granted under this Plan shall permit a Participant to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans (as defined by Code Section 423(b)) of the Company and
any Subsidiary in an amount which, in the aggregate, would exceed $25,000 based on the Fair Market Value of such stock (determined at the time the option is granted) for each calendar year in which the option is outstanding at any time.

(b)  
    No employee who would own, immediately after the option is granted, stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of
all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary (a  5% Owner ) shall be  
          
   6   

granted an option. For purposes of determining whether an employee is a 5% Owner, the rules of Code Section 424(d) shall apply in determining the stock
ownership of an individual and stock which the employee may purchase under outstanding options shall be treated as stock owned by the employee.           SECTION 6 - DISTRIBUTIONS OF COMMON STOCK ACCOUNT         

6.1   
    Restrictions on Distributions  . Shares of Common Stock purchased hereunder (other than shares of Common Stock acquired upon the automatic investment of dividends
pursuant to Section 7) cannot be withdrawn from the Plan by a Participant, a former Participant who has terminated employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries, or, in the event of the Participant s death, a Participant s
Beneficiary, spouse or estate (determined in accordance with Section 6.4) for a period of 24 months immediately following the first day of the Offering Period ending with the Investment Date on which such shares were purchased, unless otherwise
determined by the Company consistent with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.         

6.2   
    Termination of Employment  . If a Participant s employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates for any reason during a Plan Year, shares credited to
the Participant s Common Stock Account may be withdrawn by the Participant from the Plan, subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, or may be sold by the Participant through the Plan. Shares not otherwise withdrawn from or sold through the
Plan will be distributed to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of a 24 month period beginning on the first day of the Offering Period ending with the Investment Date on which the last share was purchased
under the Plan by the Participant.         

6.3   
    During Employment  . Prior to the Participant s termination of employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries, a Participant may withdraw some or all of the whole
shares credited to the Participant s Common Stock Account, subject to the provisions of Section 6.1, or may sell through the Plan some or all of the whole shares credited to the Participant s Common Stock Account, subject to the
provisions of Section 10.3.         

6.4   
    Death  . In the event of a Participant s death, all shares credited to the Participant s Common Stock Account may be withdrawn from the Plan, subject to the
provisions of Section 6.1, or sold through the Plan by:         

(i)  
  the Participant s Beneficiary, or         

(ii)  
  if the Company is maintaining procedures pursuant to Section 12.5 pursuant to which a Participant may designate a Beneficiary and no Beneficiary has been so designated or if
the Company is not maintaining procedures pursuant to Section 12.5 pursuant to which a Participant may designate a Beneficiary, the Participant s spouse or, if the Participant is not survived by a spouse, the Participant s estate,
          
   7   

and any amount credited to the Participant s Payroll Deduction Account shall be distributed to such
Beneficiary, spouse or estate, as applicable, as soon as administratively practicable after the Company receives notice of the Participant s death. Shares not otherwise withdrawn from or sold through the Plan will be distributed to the
Participant s Beneficiary, spouse or estate (determined in accordance with clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 6.4) as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of a 24 month period beginning on the
Investment Date on which the last share was purchased under the Plan by the Participant. Whether a person is a spouse will be determined using the eligibility standards for U.S. Social Security benefits.       

6.5   
    Sales through the Plan  . Subject to the provisions of Section 10.3, a Participant, a former Participant who has terminated employment with the Company and its
Subsidiaries, or, in the event of the Participant s death, a Participant s Beneficiary, spouse or estate (determined in accordance with Section 6.4) may sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan pursuant to procedures
established from time to time by the Administrator.          SECTION 7 - DIVIDENDS ON SHARES        All cash dividends paid with respect to shares of Common Stock held in a participant s Common Stock Account shall be invested automatically in shares of Common Stock
purchased at 100 percent of Fair Market Value on the date such dividend is paid. All non-cash distributions paid on Common Stock held in a Participant s Common Stock Account shall be paid to the Participant (or, in the event of the
Participant s death, the Participant s Beneficiary, spouse or estate, determined in accordance with Section 6.4) as soon as administratively practicable.        SECTION 8 - RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER        When a Participant purchases Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or when
Common Stock is credited to a Participant s Common Stock Account, subject to the restrictions set forth in Sections 6 and 10.3, the Participant shall have all of the rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the
shares so purchased or credited, whether or not certificates representing shares shall have been issued.        SECTION 9 - OPTIONS NOT TRANSFERABLE
       Neither a Participant s Payroll Deduction Account nor any options granted under the Plan to a Participant may be transferred, pledged or
otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution) by a Participant and such options are exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant. Any attempt at such assignment, transfer,
pledge or other disposition shall be without effect.        SECTION 10 - COMMON STOCK         

10.1   
    Reserved Shares  . There shall be reserved for issuance and purchase under the Plan an aggregate of 25,404,187 shares of Common Stock (as of October 31, 1999),
subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11. Shares subject to the Plan may be shares now or hereafter authorized but unissued, treasury shares, or both.           
   8   

10.2   
    Restrictions on Exercise  . In its sole discretion, the Board of Directors may require as conditions to the exercise of any option that shares of Common Stock reserved
for issuance upon the exercise of an option shall have been duly listed on any recognized national securities exchange, and that either a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to said shares shall be
effective, or the Participant shall have represented at the time of purchase, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, that it is the Participant s intention to purchase the shares for investment only and not for resale or
distribution.         

10.3   
    Restriction on Sale  . Shares of Common Stock purchased hereunder (other than shares of Common Stock acquired upon the automatic investment of dividends pursuant to
Section 7) shall not be transferable by a Participant for a period of 12 months following the first day of the Offering Period ending with the Investment Date on which such shares were purchased.          SECTION 11 - ADJUSTMENT UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION        In the
event of a subdivision or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or the payment of a stock dividend thereon, the number of shares reserved or authorized to be reserved under this Plan shall be increased or decreased, as the case
may be, equitably by the Board of Directors. In the event of any other change affecting the Common Stock, such adjustments shall be made equitably by the Board of Directors to give proper effect to such event, subject to the limitations of Code
Section 424.        SECTION 12 - ADMINISTRATION         

12.1  
  The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors, which may to the extent permitted by law, but need not, delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan to an
Administrator. Any delegation hereunder shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Board of Directors specifies at the time of such delegation or thereafter. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as obligating the Board of Directors
to delegate authority under this Plan, and the Board of Directors may at any time rescind the authority delegated to an Administrator appointed hereunder or appoint a new Administrator. At all times, an Administrator appointed under this
Section 12.1 shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.         

12.2  
    The Board of Directors (and the Administrator, to the extent that the Board of Directors delegates its authority under the Plan pursuant to Section 12.1) shall
have full power and authority to construe and interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to it, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable in administering the Plan. All determinations by the
Board of Directors (or the Administrator, as the case may be) in carrying out and administering the Plan and in construing and interpreting the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes  
          
   9   

and upon all persons interested. In the event of any disagreement between the Board of Directors and the Administrator, the Board of Director s
determination on such matter shall be final and binding on all interested persons, including the Administrator.          

12.3  
  No member of the Board of Directors or the Administrator shall be liable for anything whatsoever in connection with the administration of the Plan except such person s own
willful misconduct. Under no circumstances shall any member of the Board of Directors or the Administrator be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Board of Directors or the Administrator. In the performance of its functions with
respect to the Plan, the Board of Directors and the Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Company s officers, the Company s accountants, the Company s counsel and any other party the
Board of Directors or the Administrator deems necessary, and no member of the Board of Directors or the Administrator shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in reliance upon any such advice.         

12.4  
  The Company shall pay all the costs of administration of the Plan.         

12.5  
  The Company may maintain procedures pursuant to which a Participant may designate a Beneficiary.         

12.6  
  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.2, the Board of Directors (or any duly appointed Administrator) may establish procedures from time to time relating to the review
and determination of claims for benefits under the Plan. Such claims procedures may include appointment of one or more committees, which may be composed of such officers of the Company or other individuals as the Board of Directors (or
Administrator, as the case may be) shall determine, to act with respect to any claim for benefits under the Plan. Any such committee shall have such authority as is determined by the Board of Directors (or Administrator, as the case may be), which
may include the exclusive discretionary right to interpret the Plan, including those provisions arising under or in connection with the administration of the Plan, including without limitation, the authority to make factual determinations.
         SECTION 13 - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION         

13.1   
    Amendment  . Subject to the provisions of Code Section 423, the Board of Directors (and the Administrator, to the extent the Board of Directors delegates its
authority under this Section 13.1) may amend the Plan in any respect; provided, however, that the Plan may not be amended in any manner that will retroactively impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any person to benefits under the
Plan which have accrued prior to the date of such action. The Board of Directors may delegate to the Administrator its authority under this Section 13.1 to amend any of the following Sections of the Plan and any other provision of the Plan for
which approval by the Board of Directors (or a committee thereof) is not required under applicable law or the rules of any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded: Sections 3.3, 4.4, 4.5(a), 4.5(b), 6.4, 10.3, 15, 16, 17 and
18.           
   10   

13.2   
    Termination  . The Plan will terminate on the Investment Date that Participants become entitled to purchase a number of shares greater than the number of shares
remaining available for purchase. In addition, the Plan may be terminated at any prior time, at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors.          SECTION 14 - GOVERNMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS        The Plan and the grant and exercise of options to purchase shares hereunder, and the
Company s obligation to sell and deliver shares upon the exercise of options to purchase shares, shall be subject to all applicable Federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental
agency as, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, may be required.        SECTION 15 - NO EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS        The Plan does not create, directly or indirectly, any right for the benefit of any employee or class of employees to purchase any shares from the Company (other than as
expressly provided in, and subject to the terms and conditions of, the Plan), or create in any employee or class of employees any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company or any Subsidiary, and it shall not be deemed to
interfere in any way with the Company s or any Subsidiary s right to terminate, or otherwise modify, an employee s employment at any time.        SECTION 16 - WITHHOLDING        As a condition to receiving shares or cash amounts hereunder, the Company may require the Participant to
make a cash payment to the Company of, or the Company may withhold from any shares and cash amounts distributable under the Plan, an amount necessary to satisfy all Federal, state, city or other taxes required to be withheld in respect of such
payments pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.        SECTION 17 - OFFSETS        To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall have the absolute right to withhold any amounts payable to any Participant under the terms of the Plan to the extent of
any amount owed for any reason by such Participant to the Company or any Subsidiary and to set off and apply the amounts so withheld to payment of any such amount owed to the Company or any Subsidiary, whether or not such amount shall then be
immediately due and payable and in such order or priority as among such amounts owed as the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine.        SECTION 18 - NOTICES, ETC.        All elections, designations, requests, notices, instructions and other communications from a Participant
to the Administrator or the Company required or permitted under the Plan shall be in Company-specified form, and if required to be in writing shall be mailed by first-class mail or delivered to such Company-specified location and shall be deemed to
have been given and delivered only upon actual receipt thereof at such location.         
   11   

SECTION 19 - CAPTIONS, ETC.        The captions of the sections and paragraphs of this Plan have been inserted solely as a matter of convenience and in no way define or limit the scope or intent of any provision of the Plan. References to sections
herein are to the specified sections of this Plan unless another reference is specifically stated. Wherever used herein, a singular number shall be deemed to include the plural unless a different meaning is required by the context.        SECTION 20 - EFFECT OF PLAN        The provisions of the Plan shall
be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, all successors of the Company and each Participant, including, without limitation, such Participant s estate and the executors, administrators or trustees thereof, heirs and legatees, and any
receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of creditors of such Participant.        SECTION 21 - GOVERNING LAW        The internal laws of the State of New York shall govern all matters relating to this Plan except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States.         
   12   

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.47>
 4
 dex1047.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY 2006 NOTIONAL LEVERAGED CO-INVESTMENT PLAN

Morgan Stanley 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan 

Exhibit 10.47        MORGAN STANLEY        2006 NOTIONAL LEVERAGED CO-INVESTMENT PLAN        Amended as of November 28, 2008       SECTION 1 . Purpose.  The Morgan Stanley 2006 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan (as may be amended from time to time, the   Plan  ) has the purposes of: (i) providing the opportunity to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees to enhance (A) the portion of any discretionary above base compensation that would otherwise be awarded to them in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive
compensation or (B) any retention, new hire or similar awards that would be granted to such management and employees and (ii) facilitating the allocation of such compensation to the notional investment opportunities afforded by the Plan.
     SECTION 2.  Definitions . As used in the Plan, unless determined otherwise by the Firm and set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings:        Above Base Compensation   means any compensation other
than base salary that the Firm awards to an Eligible Person, before reduction for any applicable taxes. Nothing in the Plan shall obligate the Firm to award or pay any Above Base Compensation to any person.        Account   means the bookkeeping account that the Firm establishes and maintains for a Participant pursuant to Section 7. An Account
is established only for purposes of tracking a Notional Plan Investment and not to segregate or identify assets that may be used to make distributions or other payments under the Plan.        Accredited Investor   means an Eligible Person who is able to represent at the time of such Eligible Person s submission of an
Allocation Form that:      (i) Such Eligible Person s net worth, either individually or jointly with such Eligible
Person s spouse, exceeds $1,000,000; or      (ii) Such Eligible Person had individual income (before elective deferrals) in
excess of $200,000 in each of the two most recent years and has a reasonable expectation of reaching the same level in the current year; or      (iii) Such Eligible Person had joint income with such Eligible Person s spouse in excess of $300,000 in each of the two most recent years and has a reasonable expectation of reaching the same level in the current
year.   

Income does not include the value of any mandatory equity-based or other long-term incentive compensation awards.
       Administrator   means one or more officers of the Firm to whom the Committee, in its sole discretion, delegates all or
some of its authority and responsibilities to administer the Plan. Such officers are authorized to sub-delegate some or all of such authority and responsibilities to the Executive Compensation Department, another committee of the Firm and/or one or
more officers of the Firm, and any person or persons to whom are sub-delegated all or some of such authority and responsibilities is also, to the extent of such sub-delegation, the  Administrator . Only the Committee is authorized to
make any decision or amendment regarding the participation in the Plan or any interest in the Plan held by any member of the Operating Committee of Morgan Stanley or any employee who is an  executive officer  of Morgan Stanley under United
States federal securities laws.        Allocation   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).        Allocation Form   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).        Allocation Preference   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).        Applicable Reduction Amount   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(a)(i).        Associated Employee Fund   means, with respect to any reference investment underlying a Notional Plan Investment, a co-investment or
feeder fund that is available primarily to employees of the Firm and is associated with such reference investment.        Award
Certificate  , with respect to any Participant, means a written document (including in electronic form) that sets forth the terms and conditions of such Participant s participation in the Plan. A Participant s participation in the
Plan shall be governed by the Plan, such Participant s Award Certificate and, if and to the extent applicable pursuant to Section 16(e), the International Supplement.        Board   means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.        Cancellation Event  , with respect to any Participant, shall have the meaning set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate. Cancellation Events in respect of any given Fiscal Year shall be
substantially similar to such events as set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant.        Closed-End Distribution Date   means, with respect to any Plan Interest of any Participant, any date, specified in the applicable Award Certificate, as a Distribution Date for Proceeds with respect to Closed-End
Investments.         
   - 2 -   

Closed-End Investment   means a Notional Plan Investment in a reference investment that
generally does not permit redemptions by investors but makes distributions to investors from time to time following the sale, transfer or other disposition of its investments.        Code   means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.        Committee   means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any
other committee of the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.        Descriptive Materials   means all brochures, letters, memoranda or other documents from the Firm to a Participant regarding the Plan, including all electronic-based materials.        Distribution Date   means, (i) with respect to a Closed-End Investment, the Scheduled Distribution Date and all Subsequent
Distribution Dates (including the Final Distribution Date) and (ii) with respect to an Open-End Investment, the Scheduled Distribution Date.        Eligible Person   means a professional employee of the Firm who satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 4.        Executive Compensation Department   means Morgan Stanley s Executive Compensation Department or any other department of Morgan Stanley that succeeds to the functions of the Executive Compensation
Department.        Final Distribution Date   means, with respect to any Participant, the date, specified in such
Participant s Award Certificate, on which the Firm shall make its final distribution to such Participant in accordance with Section 10(a)(iii). The Final Distribution Date in respect of any given Fiscal Year shall be January 15 of the
thirteenth Fiscal Year following the end of such Fiscal Year ( e.g. , in respect of the 2006 Fiscal Year, the Final Distribution Date shall be January 15, 2019).        Firm   means Morgan Stanley together with its subsidiaries and other affiliates.        Fiscal Year   and   Fiscal Quarter   mean Morgan Stanley s Fiscal Year and Morgan Stanley s Fiscal Quarter,
respectively.        International Supplement   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16(e).         
   - 3 -   

Investment Committee   means a committee of two or more officers of the Firm to whom the
Administrator delegates the authority and responsibilities to select Notional Plan Investments.          Legal
Requirement     means any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement.        LIBOR   means the London Interbank Offering Rate.        Morgan Stanley   means
Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.        Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate   means, for any period,
the rate at which notional interest with respect to any Notional Advance shall accrue from the date when it is used to notionally fund a Notional Plan Investment until and to the extent such Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is reduced by any
Proceeds. Unless otherwise determined by the Firm, the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate shall be equal to the sum of (i) 90-day LIBOR, as determined before the beginning of the applicable period,  plus  (ii) 50 basis points. Pursuant
and subject to Section 3(a)(iv), the Firm reserves the right to revise the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate at any time and from time to time.        Notional Advance   means, with respect to any Participant, the notional amount that Morgan Stanley adds to that portion of such Participant s Participant Allocation that is notionally invested in a Notional Plan
Investment in accordance with Section 6.        Notional Plan Investment   means an investment designated by the Firm as a
reference investment for the benefit of the Plan. Reference investments underlying Notional Plan Investments include proprietary investment funds of the Firm or  funds of funds  of the Firm that include investment funds sponsored or
offered by third parties. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant s interest in any Notional Plan Investment shall be notional.        Open-End Investment   means a Notional Plan Investment in a reference investment that generally does not make distributions to its investors but permits investors to redeem their interest in the fund from time to time.
       Open-End Investment Proceeds   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(c).        Participant   means an Eligible Person who participates in the Plan.        Participant Allocation   means, with respect to any Participant, (i) that portion of such Participant s Above Base
Compensation that would otherwise be awarded in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive compensation that is allocated to the Plan or (ii) such Participant s Special Award.         
   - 4 -   

Participant Applicable Rate   means, for any period, the rate at which notional interest
shall accrue with respect to:      (i) Each Participant s Participant Allocation (or the portion thereof), from the date on
which such Participant s Above Base Compensation would otherwise have been paid (or, in the case of a Special Award, the grant date of such Special Award) until the Firm notionally allocates such Participant Allocation (or such portion) to one
or more Notional Plan Investments;      (ii) Each Participant s Participant Allocation, if the Firm determines that a
Participant s Participant Allocation shall not be notionally invested in Notional Plan Investments, from the date on which such Participant s Above Base Compensation would otherwise have been paid (or, in the case of a Special Award, the
grant date of such Special Award) until the Scheduled Distribution Date;      (iii) The Proceeds relating to a Realization (or
partial Realization) with respect to a Closed-End Investment, from the date of such Realization until the applicable Distribution Date, as further set forth in Section 10(a) or (b), as applicable;      (iv) The Proceeds relating to a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to an Open-End Investment, from the date of such
Realization until the Scheduled Distribution Date, as further set forth in Section 10(a);      (v) The Proceeds relating to
a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to a Notional Plan Investment, from the date of the applicable Distribution Date to the actual date of distribution permitted by Section 11(a); and      (vi) Each Participant s Plan Termination Value, from the date of any termination of the Plan until the distribution of such Plan
Termination Value on the applicable Distribution Date.      Unless otherwise determined by the Firm, the Participant Applicable Rate shall be equal to 90-day
LIBOR, as determined before the beginning of the applicable period. Pursuant and subject to Section 3(a)(iv), the Firm reserves the right to revise the Participant Applicable Rate at any time and from time to time.        Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.        Plan Interest   means, with respect to any Participant, such Participant s Total Notional Investment (including any notional
interest accrued at the Participant Applicable Rate)  minus  such Participant s theretofore unreduced Notional Advances (plus accrued and previously unreduced notional interest thereon).        Plan Termination Value   means, with respect to any Participant in connection with the termination of this Plan, a Final Distribution
Date or a single  
       
   - 5 -   

Closed-End Distribution Date, the fair value (determined by reference to the value that the Firm s books and records show as of the then most recently
concluded Fiscal Quarter end preceding the date of such termination) of such Participant s vested Plan Interest, if any (together with any notional interest accrued thereon), on the effective date of such termination, or as of such Final
Distribution Date or single Closed-End Distribution Date, as applicable.        Proceeds   means, with respect to any Notional
Plan Investment, (i) notional gross cash proceeds, if any, that are Realized in respect of such Notional Plan Investment at any time,  plus  (ii) if there is an Associated Employee Fund, an additional amount equal to the difference
between (A) the  carried interest  that would be paid by third-party investors with respect to the reference investment underlying such Notional Plan Investment, and (B) the  carried interest  that would be paid by
employee investors in an Associated Employee Fund.        Realization   or   Realize   means (i) with
respect to a Closed-End Investment, the receipt of a distribution by an investor, had such investor received such a distribution from such Closed-End Investment; and (ii) with respect to an Open-End Investment, the receipt of a distribution or
redemption proceeds by an investor, had such investor received such a distribution or effected such a redemption from such Open-End Investment as of such Open-End Investment s most recent valuation date. For the avoidance of doubt, the
re-investment of proceeds by a Notional Plan Investment does not, itself, give rise to a Realization.        Scheduled Distribution
Date   means, with respect to any Participant, the date, specified in such Participant s Award Certificate, on which Proceeds in respect of Notional Plan Investments shall commence being distributed to such Participant.        Section 409A   means Section 409A of the Code, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor provisions
thereto).        Securities Act   means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.        Special Award   means a retention, new hire or similar award that is granted in the form of a participation in the Plan.        Subsequent Distribution Date  , with respect to any Participant, means each anniversary of such Participant s Scheduled
Distribution Date, until the earlier of (i) the Subsequent Distribution Date on which all remaining Proceeds relating to all Closed-End Investments are distributed to Participants, and (ii) the Final Distribution Date.        Total Compensation   means (i) base salary, commissions and annual bonus, inclusive of the value of long-term incentive
compensation, or what the Firm designates as  total reward  and (ii) for employees who are Investment Representatives or Financial Advisors of the Global Wealth Management Group,  
       
   - 6 -   

gross compensation, pre-deductions, inclusive of the value of long-term incentive compensation, or what the Firm designates as  total reward .
       Total Notional Investment   means, with respect to any Participant at any time, such Participant s interest in the
Plan that is attributable to such Participant s Participant Allocations at such time and any related Notional Advances.      SECTION 3 . Administration.       (a) The Committee shall administer the Plan. In addition to other express powers and
authorizations that the Plan confers on the Committee, the Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan, Legal Requirements and contractual provisions binding upon the Firm and any internal policies
and procedures of the Firm:      (i) to determine the terms and conditions of each Award Certificate;      (ii) to construe and interpret the Plan, any Award Certificate or any summary of the foregoing;      (iii) to prescribe, amend, rescind or waive rules and procedures relating to the Plan with respect to any and all Participants;
     (iv) to revise the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate and the Participant Applicable Rate;      (v) to waive any provision of the Plan or one or more Award Certificates with respect to any and all Participants;      (vi) to vary the terms and conditions of participation in the Plan to take account of tax laws, securities laws and other regulatory
requirements of foreign jurisdictions; and      (vii) to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the
administration of the Plan.      Except as expressly provided for in the Plan, the Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may
be made selectively among Eligible Persons and Participants, whether or not such persons are similarly situated. All determinations by the Committee or the Administrator pursuant to Section 3(b), in administering, construing or interpreting the
Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.      (b) The Committee may, but need not, from time to time
delegate such of its responsibilities under the Plan as it deems appropriate to the Administrator;  provided, however , that the Administrator is not authorized to designate Notional Plan Investments without the concurrence and authorization of
the Investment  
       
   - 7 -   

Committee. In connection with the performance of their responsibilities under the Plan, the Committee, the Administrator and the Investment Committee may
consult with any third party they deem necessary or advisable, including any outside consultant or advisor.      (c) Neither the Firm nor any
member of the Board, the Committee, the Investment Committee, the Administrator and their respective affiliates and employees shall be liable in any manner whatsoever in connection with the administration, construction or interpretation of the Plan,
any Award Certificate or the Descriptive Materials, except for any liability arising out of such person s willful misconduct. Under no circumstances shall any such person be liable for any act or omission of any other person. In the performance
of its, his or her functions with respect to the Plan, each such person shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Firm s officers, the Firm s accountants, the Firm s counsel, the Firm s tax advisors
and any other person the Committee deems necessary or advisable, and no such person shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in reliance upon any such advice.      (d) Any discretionary authority or obligation pursuant to the Plan shall not be applicable to the extent such discretionary authority or obligation is prohibited by Section 409A, or would result in a Participant
being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      SECTION 4 . Eligibility.        (a) In
order for a professional employee of the Firm to be an Eligible Person with respect to any given Fiscal Year, such employee shall:      (i) Have earned Total Compensation of at least US$500,000 (annualized), or local currency equivalent, in respect of the most recently ended Fiscal Year, or, if hired during the current Fiscal Year, have a reasonable expectation of Total
Compensation of at least such amount in respect of the current Fiscal Year; and      (ii) Certify that such employee qualifies
as an Accredited Investor.      (b) An Eligible Person with respect to a given Fiscal Year who does not earn Total Compensation of at least
US$500,000 (annualized), or local currency equivalent, in respect of such Fiscal Year shall not be permitted to participate in the Plan.      (c) A Branch Manager or a Financial Advisor in the Global Wealth Management Group shall be an Eligible Person if such Branch Manager or Financial Advisor satisfies the requirements described in Section 4(a) and  
       
   - 8 -   

receives a  challenge bonus  or  productivity bonus  award (as such internal titles, units and bonuses may be referred to from time to
time).      (d) Any employee who is a member of the Operating Committee of Morgan Stanley or who is an  executive officer  of Morgan
Stanley under United States federal securities laws is not eligible to participate in the Plan. However, if a Participant subsequently becomes such a member or executive officer, such Participant shall continue to participate in the Plan in respect
of such Participant s then existing Total Notional Investment on the same basis as other Participants.      SECTION 5 . Participant
Allocation.       (a) In accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes, an Eligible Person with respect to any given
Fiscal Year may express a preference to allocate up to 40% of the compensation other than base salary that would otherwise be granted in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive compensation in respect of
such Fiscal Year to the Plan (an   Allocation Preference    provided  that the Firm, in its sole discretion, reserves the right not to give effect to all or any portion of such Allocation Preference and retains ultimate and
sole discretion on the final allocation (  Allocation  ) of the non-cash component of such Eligible Person s Above Base Compensation. Such Allocation Preference, which such Eligible Person shall make by submitting a form,
including in electronic form (an   Allocation Form  ), on or prior to a date specified on such Allocation Form, shall be irrevocable on or after such date. Any Allocation shall be subject to the eligibility criteria of Section 4
and shall not constitute a guarantee of Plan participation.      (b) If the Firm s ability to give effect to Allocations is limited for
any reason, it shall limit Allocations on a basis that is as  pro rata  as administratively practicable.      (c) The Firm shall issue to
each Participant an Award Certificate setting forth the terms and conditions of such Participant s participation in the Plan.      (d)
Each Participant s Participant Allocation shall accrue notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date that such Participant s Above Base Compensation would otherwise have been paid (or, in the case of a Special Award,
the grant date of such Special Award): (i) until the Firm notionally allocates such Participant Allocation (or the portion thereof) to one or more Notional Plan Investments pursuant to Section 8, or (ii) if the Firm does not
notionally invest such Participant Allocation (or portion thereof) in a Notional Plan Investment, until the Scheduled Distribution Date, on which date the Firm shall pay such Participant Allocation (or such portion) to such Participant.   
     
   - 9 -   

(e) Allocations are intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act. By participating in
the Plan, each Participant shall be deemed to acknowledge, represent and warrant to and agree with Morgan Stanley, and the Firm may require the Participant to affirmatively acknowledge, represent and warrant to and agree with Morgan Stanley, as
follows:      (i) The Participant received and carefully reviewed the Descriptive Materials, and the Participant understands the
information contained therein, the risks associated with a Notional Plan Investment under the Plan and the conflicts that the Plan may present for the Firm and agrees to be bound by the terms of the Descriptive Materials;      (ii) The Participant had a reasonable opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from a person or persons acting on behalf of
Morgan Stanley concerning the Plan and all such questions were answered to the Participant s full satisfaction;      (iii)
No oral or written representations were made to the Participant concerning the Plan other than as stated in any Award Certificate and/or the Descriptive Materials, and no oral or written information furnished to the Participant in connection with
the Plan was inconsistent with the information stated in the Descriptive Materials;      (iv) The Participant has adequate means
of providing for the Participant s current financial needs and contingencies, is able to bear the substantial economic risks of the Plan for an indefinite period of time, has no need for liquidity regarding the Participant s assets placed
in the Plan and, at the present time, could afford a complete loss of such assets;      (v) The Participant has such knowledge
and experience in financial, tax and business matters so as to enable the Participant to utilize the information made available to the Participant in connection with the Plan to evaluate the merits and risks of the Plan and to make an informed
decision with respect thereto;      (vi) The Participant is not relying on Morgan Stanley or any person or persons acting on
behalf of Morgan Stanley with respect to the tax and other economic considerations of the Plan;      (vii) The Participant
satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth in Section       (viii) The Participant shall provide such information
and execute and deliver such documents as may reasonably be requested by the Firm in connection with the Plan, including such information and documents as may reasonably be necessary to comply with any and all laws to which the Firm is subject, and
such additional information as the Firm may deem appropriate with regard to the Participant s eligibility (including documentation relating to the Participant s qualification as an Accredited Investor); and         
   - 10 -   

(ix) The Participant shall keep confidential all matters relating to the Plan (including
the terms of the Plan and any Award Certificate and the Descriptive Materials), except to the extent such matters are publicly available (through no fault of the Participant) or as otherwise required by Legal Requirements. The Firm s Code of
Conduct regarding confidential and proprietary information shall cover such matters.      SECTION 6 . Notional Advance.    
  (a) At the time that any Participant Allocation (or portion thereof) is notionally invested in a Notional Plan Investment, a Notional Advance in an
amount equal to such Participant Allocation (or such portion)  multiplied by  two shall be added to the Participant Allocation (or such portion) for purposes of the Participant s notional investment in such Notional Plan Investment.
     (b) Each Notional Advance shall accrue notional interest at the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate during the period that such Notional
Advance is deemed to be outstanding ( i.e. , from the date of the addition of such Notional Advance to the related Participant Allocation (or such portion) until and to the extent such Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is reduced by any
Proceeds). For the avoidance of doubt, no Notional Advance shall be allocated until a Participant s Participant Allocation is notionally invested in a Notional Plan Investment (therefore, no notional interest shall begin to accrue until such
time).      (c) Any Notional Advance shall be satisfied only through reductions to: (i) any notional interest theretofore accrued at the
Participant Applicable Rate, or (ii) Proceeds in accordance with Section 10. No Participant shall be required to make any direct or out-of-pocket payment to the Firm in connection with any Notional Advance.      SECTION 7 . Establishment of Accounts.  The Firm shall establish an Account for each Participant, to which it shall credit such
Participant s Participant Allocations and any related Notional Advances. Each Participant s Account shall reflect such Participant s notional share of each Notional Plan Investment.      SECTION 8 . Notional Plan Investments.       (a) The Firm shall designate Notional Plan Investments for the benefit of the Plan, and shall establish a purchase price, for purposes of the Plan, equal to the fair value (as the Firm shall determine) of such Notional Plan Investments at
the time of their designation. Participants shall participate in each Notional Plan Investment  pro rata  based on their respective Total Notional Investments. Each Participant s notional share of any Notional Plan Investment shall be
deemed to have been notionally funded by such Participant s Participant Allocation and the related Notional Advance.      (b) Notional
Plan Investments in respect of any given Fiscal Year shall be indicated on the Executive Compensation Department website or through other  
       
   - 11 -   

means that the Firm shall determine and communicate to Participants from time to time. The Firm may provide a Participant with a description of the related
reference investments and their historical returns;  however , the Firm is not responsible for actions, statements or performance of the Notional Plan Investments.      (c) The Firm may choose Notional Plan Investments based on a variety of factors, which may include the Firm s own business interests and its relations with such reference investments or parties affiliated with
such referenced funds. By participating in the Plan, each Participant shall be deemed to acknowledge the existence of actual and potential conflicts of interest with the Firm and waive any claim with respect to the existence of any conflict of
interest and the Firm may require each Participant to affirmatively make such acknowledgment and waiver.      (d) The performance of each
Notional Plan Investment shall reflect all of the fees and costs of the related reference investment, including placement agent and brokerage fees, which such reference investment may pay to the Firm if the Firm provides such services to it. The
Firm may also act as the investment advisor or provide other services to such reference investment and receive fees for providing these services. Fees paid by any reference investment will reduce the performance of such reference investment (and,
accordingly, the performance of the Notional Plan Investment) and, therefore, will reduce the amount of the Firm s distribution obligations to Participants under the Plan.      (e) Nothing in the Descriptive Materials shall be construed to confer on a Participant the right to continue to have any particular Notional Plan
Investment available for purposes of measuring the value of the Participant s Total Notional Investment.      (f) The value of a
Participant s Total Notional Investment is subject to risk at all times based upon the performance of the Notional Plan Investments. If the value of the Notional Plan Investments decreases in the future, then the value of a Participant s
Total Notional Investment may be lower than the Participant s Participant Allocation. Additionally, if the value of the Notional Plan Investments decreases in the future and proves to be insufficient to reduce the Notional Advances (plus any
notional interest thereon), a Participant will not be entitled to receive any of such Participant s Participant Allocation. Although a Participant will not be an investor in any reference investments underlying the Notional Plan Investments, a
Participant s Total Notional Investment will be determined by referencing the gains and losses attributable to the performance of such Notional Plan Investments. In effect, the Firm is merely targeting the return and liquidity on such Notional
Plan Investments and to the extent that the Firm incurs any costs in connection therewith or in connection with the administration of the Plan, it has the right to adjust the return on a Participant s Notional Plan Investments to reflect these
costs. Any distribution or other payment under the Plan is also subject to the risks associated with the Participant s status as an unsecured general creditor of Morgan Stanley as described in Section 16(c).         
   - 12 -   

SECTION 9 . Vesting.       (a) Terms and conditions relating to the vesting of a Participant s Plan Interest (including any consequences of a termination of such
Participant s employment) shall be set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate. Such terms and conditions with respect to any Participant in respect of any given Fiscal Year shall be substantially similar to analogous terms and
conditions set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant in respect of such Fiscal Year.      (b) The
Firm may accelerate the vesting of a Participant s Plan Interest and may, in its sole discretion, determine other circumstances under which a Participant s Plan Interest shall vest. Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Certificate shall
entitle a Participant to request or receive any distribution or other payment upon the vesting of all or any portion of such Participant s Plan Interest.      (c) Even if a Participant holds a Plan Interest, whether or not fully vested, it may be canceled without any consideration upon the occurrence of a Cancellation Event prior to the Scheduled Distribution Date. Upon
such occurrence, the Participant shall have no further interest in or entitlement under the Plan, including no right or entitlement to any Participant Allocation.      SECTION 10 . Distributions.       (a)  Closed-End Investments   Multiple Distribution
Dates . If a Participant s Award Certificate specifies multiple Closed-End Distribution Dates, this Section 10(a) shall apply to such Participant s applicable Total Notional Investment:      (i) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment on or prior to the Scheduled Distribution Date of a vested Plan
Interest, the share of such Proceeds attributable to the Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest shall immediately be reduced by the previously unreduced Notional Advances (plus accrued and previously unreduced notional interest
thereon) (the   Applicable Reduction Amount  ). Any remaining Proceeds shall accrue notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization of such Proceeds until the Scheduled Distribution Date (unless
the Firm determines otherwise in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes). The Applicable Reduction Amount shall reduce the portion of subsequent Proceeds attributable to such remaining Total Notional Investment
(including, if applicable, Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after such Scheduled Distribution Date and/or Proceeds in respect of an Open-End Investment). Such remaining Proceeds shall be aggregated and distributed to such
Participant on the applicable Scheduled Distribution Date.         
   - 13 -   

(ii) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after
the Scheduled Distribution Date of a vested Plan Interest, but on or prior to the Subsequent Distribution Date of such Plan Interest, the share of such Proceeds attributable to the remaining Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan
Interest, to the extent of such Realizations, shall be reduced and aggregated and distributed on such Subsequent Distribution Date in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i). The share of Proceeds attributable to the remaining
Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after such Subsequent Distribution Date and on or prior to the next Subsequent Distribution Date shall be reduced and aggregated and
distributed on such next Subsequent Distribution Date.      (iii) If the last Subsequent Distribution Date of a vested Plan
Interest is such Plan Interest s Final Distribution Date, then the Firm shall distribute to each Participant an amount equal to the sum of (i) the share of any undistributed Proceeds attributable to any remaining Total Notional Investment
with respect to such Plan Interest, subject to any reductions, and (ii) such Plan Termination Value with respect to such Plan Interest that relates to any then un-Realized Notional Plan Investments in accordance with the method described in
Section 10(a)(i) on such Final Distribution Date.      (b)  Closed-End Investments   Single Distribution Date.  If a
Participant s Award Certificate specifies a single Closed-End Distribution Date, this Section 10(b) shall apply to such Participant s applicable Total Notional Investment:      (i) Proceeds in respect of any Closed-End Investment, if any ,  will be distributed on or as soon as administratively practicable
after the single Closed-End Distribution Date (reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i)). In addition, Morgan Stanley will distribute on such Closed-End Distribution Date any
remaining Plan Termination Value with respect to any then un-Realized Closed-End Investments (these amounts shall be reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i)).      (ii) With respect to Realizations which occur prior to the single Closed-End Distribution Date, the Proceeds, if any, from such
Realizations may be allocated to a set of alternative notional investments within a Participant s Account until the Closed-End Distribution Date. Such an alternative notional investment menu will be provided by the Firm and communicated to the
Participant prior to the Scheduled Distribution Date.      (c)  Open-End Investments . With respect to any Proceeds in respect of an
Open-End Investment, the share of such Proceeds attributable to the Total  
       
   - 14 -   

Notional Investment with respect to a Plan Interest shall accrue notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization of
such Proceeds until the Scheduled Distribution Date of the vested portion of such Plan Interest. Such Proceeds (and any accrued notional interest thereon) (  Open-End Investment Proceeds  ) shall be reduced by the Applicable Reduction
Amount in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i), and, after such reduction, the share of any such remaining Open-End Investment Proceeds, if any, shall be distributed to the applicable Participant on the Scheduled
Distribution Date of the vested portion of such Plan Interest.      (d)  Distributions in Connection with a Termination of Employment .
Terms and conditions relating to any distribution of a Participant s vested Plan Interest in connection with a termination of such Participant s employment shall be set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate. Such terms and
conditions with respect to any Participant in respect of any given Fiscal Year shall be consistent with analogous terms and conditions set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant in respect of such Fiscal
Year.      (e)  Distributions in Connection with a Plan Termination . Upon a termination of the Plan, subject to any Cancellation Event,
the Firm shall distribute to each Participant on the applicable Distribution Date an amount equal to such Participant s Plan Termination Value (with notional interest accruing thereon at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of such
termination until the date of distribution) in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i). The Firm may not accelerate any such distribution except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and
would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of distribution or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      SECTION 11 . Distributions and Other Payments Generally.       (a) Whenever the Plan or a Participant s Award Certificate designates a specific date or event for payment or distribution of amounts under the Plan, such payment or distribution will be considered to have been
timely made, and neither a Participant nor any of a Participant s beneficiaries or estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages based on a delay in payment or distribution, and the Firm shall have no liability to any Participant (or
to any of a Participant s beneficiaries or estate) in respect of any such delay, as long as the payment or distribution is made by December 31 of the year in which occurs the specified date or event or, if later, by the 15th day of the
third calendar month following such specified date or event. The Proceeds relating to a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to a Notional Plan Investment (after the reduction of such Proceeds pursuant to Section 10) shall accrue
interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the applicable Distribution Date to the actual date of distribution.         
   - 15 -   

(b) The Firm shall not accelerate distributions or other payments under the Plan, except to the extent
accelerating distributions or other payments under the Plan is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause an Eligible Person to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or to
incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (c) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate to the
contrary, if the Firm considers a Participant to be one of its  specified employees  under Section 409A at the time of termination of such Participant s employment, any distribution or other payment of any deferred amounts that
would otherwise be due upon or as a result of such Participant s termination of employment, including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 11(d), will be delayed for six months after the Participant s termination of employment and
shall be made on the first business day following the date that is six months after such termination of employment, except to the extent that earlier distribution or payment is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant
to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the date of distribution or payment or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (d) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate to the contrary, distributions or other payments under the Plan shall be deferred
with respect to a Participant if, at the time scheduled for such distribution or payment (whether on a Distribution Date or at some other time), Morgan Stanley considers the Participant to be one of its executive officers and the Participant s
compensation may not be fully deductible by virtue of Section 162(m) of the Code. This deferral shall continue until the termination of the Participant s employment and, subject to Section 11(c), the Firm shall make any distribution
or other payment in respect of the Participant s vested Plan Interest on the date of the Participant s termination of employment.      (e) Unless otherwise set forth in an International Supplement, all distributions or other payments under the Plan shall be made in United States dollars or the Participant s local currency.      (f) The Firm may, in its sole discretion and to the maximum extent permissible under applicable Legal Requirements, withhold from or offset against any
distribution or other payment to which a Participant may be entitled under the Plan an amount sufficient to satisfy (i) any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on the property or income received by the Participant pursuant
to such distribution or payment and, (ii) exclusively in the case of a distribution or payment that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, any other obligation that the Participant owes to the Firm. To the
extent a Participant s Plan Interest constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Firm may not offset from any distribution or payment in respect thereof any amounts that the Participant owes to the Firm with respect
to any such other obligation except to the extent such  
       
   - 16 -   

offset is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to
the time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (g) To the extent that the Plan or any
Award Certificate provides for full or partial distribution or other payment of a Participant s Plan Interest to be made upon or as a result of the Participant s termination of employment, the Participant will be considered to have
experienced a termination of employment if, and only if, the Participant has experienced a separation of service with the Participant s employer for purposes of Section 409A.      SECTION 12 . Transferability.       (a) No Participant may transfer (other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution), pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of or encumber such Participant s Total Notional Investment.      (b) During a Participant s lifetime, the Firm shall make any distribution or other payment in respect of such Participant s Plan Interest only
to such Participant. A Participant may designate in writing on a beneficiary designation form, in accordance with procedures established by the Executive Compensation Department, a beneficiary or beneficiaries (including the Participant s
estate) to receive all or part of the amounts that the Firm may be obligated to pay or distribute in respect of such Participant s Plan Interest in the event of such Participant s death. A Participant may replace or revoke a designation of
a beneficiary at any time by filing a new beneficiary designation form.      SECTION 13 . Withholding or Other Deductions.  The Firm
may withhold or otherwise deduct from any amounts distributable or otherwise payable under the Plan any such taxes or other amounts as may be required to be withheld or otherwise deducted pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements.      SECTION 14 . Special Awards.  In the sole discretion of the Firm, an Eligible Employee may be eligible to receive a Special Award. Upon the
grant of such Special Award, such Eligible Employee shall be treated as a Participant for all purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, terms and conditions relating to such Participant s participation in the
Plan may differ from the analogous terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, in which case such terms and conditions shall be set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate.      SECTION 15 . Termination and Amendment.       (a) The Firm may terminate the Plan at any time in its sole discretion, subject to Section 10(e).         
   - 17 -   

(b) The Firm may also alter, amend or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International
Supplement at any time in its sole discretion. These amendments may include changes that the Firm considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in any, or the adoption or interpretation of any new, Legal Requirement. The Firm may not amend
or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement in a manner that would materially impair a Participant s participation in the Plan without the Participant s consent;  provided ,  however , that the Firm
may, without a Participant s consent alter, amend or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement in any manner that the Firm considers necessary or advisable to comply with any Legal Requirement (including
Section 409A) and to ensure that no Participant would be required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax
under Section 409A. No such action shall give rise to a claim of constructive termination on the part of such Participant. Any amendment or waiver of a provision of the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement (other than any
amendment or waiver applicable to all Participants, or similarly situated Participants, generally), which amendment or waiver operates in a Participant s favor or confers a benefit on the Participant, must be in writing and signed by the Global
Director of Human Resources or the Chief Administrative Officer (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective. The Firm shall notify Participants of any amendment to the Plan, any Award Certificate
or the International Supplement that is material, and shall notify affected Participants of any amendment that affects such Participants  rights.      SECTION 16 . Miscellaneous.       (a) The headings of sections herein are included solely for the
convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.      (b) THE PLAN AND ALL RIGHTS UNDER THE PLAN
(INCLUDING UNDER ANY AWARD CERTIFICATE OR THE INTERNATIONAL SUPPLEMENT) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY CONFLICTS IN CHOICE OF LAW, RULE OR PRINCIPLE THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE
REFER THE INTERPRETATION OF THE PLAN OR ANY SUCH RIGHT TO THE SUBSTANTIVE LAW OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION. FOLLOWING THE TIMELY AND PROPER EXHAUSTION OF APPLICABLE INTERNAL CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES, THE COURTS OF NEW YORK SHALL HAVE EXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION OVER THE PLAN AND ANY DISPUTE ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE PLAN, A PARTICIPANT S PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN OR RIGHTS UNDER THE PLAN.      (c) Except as set forth in an International Supplement, neither the Plan, any Award Certificate, the International Supplement nor the Descriptive Materials shall create or be construed to create a trust with respect
to the Plan nor create or be construed to create a separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Firm, a Participant or any other person nor create or be construed to create a segregation by the Firm of assets to fund the Plan.
To the extent any Participant has a right to receive distributions or other payments from the Firm pursuant to the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Firm.         
   - 18 -   

(d) The Firm has no obligation to invest amounts corresponding to a Participant s Participant
Allocation or Notional Advance and/or any Proceeds with respect to Notional Plan Investments. If the Firm invests amounts corresponding to a Participant s Participant Allocation or Notional Advance in any Notional Plan Investment, such
investment shall not confer on such Participant any right or interest in any such Notional Plan Investment. The Participant will have no ownership or other interest in any financial or other instrument or arrangement that the Firm may acquire or
enter into to hedge its obligations under the Plan.      (e) A Participant s participation in the Plan shall be conditioned on the Firm
making any filings and the Firm s receipt of any consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable Legal Requirements. To the extent necessary to comply with the local Legal Requirements of any
jurisdiction in which the Firm implements the Plan, the Firm may supplement the Plan and/or the Award Certificate with a supplement (the   International Supplement  ), which shall set forth certain terms and conditions applicable to
such implementation in such jurisdiction. If there is a conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions contained in the International Supplement on an issue pertinent to such jurisdiction, then the provisions of such International
Supplement shall govern.      (f) Neither the Plan, any Award Certificate, the International Supplement, the Descriptive Materials nor any
interpretation, determination or other action taken or omitted to be taken pursuant to the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing a Participant s employment, a discretionary bonus or any particular level of bonus, compensation or benefits, as
giving a Participant any right to continued employment, during any period, nor shall they be construed as giving a Participant any right to be reemployed by the Firm following any termination of employment. The Firm reserves the right not to make
available any plan similar to the Plan (in whole or in part), nor to permit any future participation after Allocations are made with respect to Above Base Compensation in respect of any given Fiscal Year or after a Special Award is granted.
     (g) If any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction or as to any Participant, or would disqualify the Plan or such Award Certificate under any Legal Requirement, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to any such Legal Requirement, or if it cannot be construed or
deemed amended without materially altering the intent of the Plan or such Award Certificate, then such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction or as to such Participant, and the remainder of the Plan or such Award Certificate shall
remain in full force and effect.         
   - 19 -   

[END OF THE PLAN]        [REMAINDER OF PAGE LEFT BLANK]          
   - 20 -   

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.49>
 5
 dex1049.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY 2007 NOTIONAL LEVERAGED CO-INVESTMENT PLAN

Morgan Stanley 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan 

Exhibit 10.49        MORGAN STANLEY        2007 NOTIONAL LEVERAGED CO-INVESTMENT PLAN        Amended as of November 28, 2008       SECTION 1 . Purpose.  The Morgan Stanley 2007 Notional Leveraged Co-Investment Plan (as may be amended from time to time, the   Plan  ) has the purposes of: (i) providing the opportunity to a select group of
management and highly compensated employees to enhance (A) the portion of any discretionary above base compensation that would otherwise be awarded to them in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive
compensation or (B) any retention, new hire or similar awards that would be granted to such management and employees and (ii) facilitating the allocation of such compensation to the notional investment opportunities afforded by the Plan.
     SECTION 2.  Definitions . As used in the Plan, unless determined otherwise by the Firm and set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings:        Above Base Compensation   means any compensation other
than base salary that the Firm awards to an Eligible Person for a Fiscal Year, before reduction for any applicable taxes. Nothing in the Plan shall obligate the Firm to award or pay any Above Base Compensation to any person.        Account   means the bookkeeping account that the Firm establishes and maintains for a Participant pursuant to Section 6. An Account
is established only for purposes of tracking a Notional Plan Investment and not to segregate or identify assets that may be used to make distributions or other payments under the Plan.        Administration Fee   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a).        Administrator   means one or more officers of the Firm to whom the Committee, in its sole discretion, delegates all or some of its
authority and responsibilities to administer the Plan. Such officers are authorized to sub-delegate some or all of such authority and responsibilities to the Executive Compensation Department, another committee of the Firm and/or one or more
officers of the Firm, and any person or persons to whom are sub-delegated all or some of such authority and responsibilities is also, to the extent of such sub-delegation, the  Administrator . Only the Committee is authorized to make
any decision or amendment regarding the participation in the Plan or any interest in the Plan held by any member of the Operating Committee of Morgan Stanley or any employee who is an  executive officer  of Morgan Stanley under United
States federal securities laws.         
   - 1 -   

Allocation   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).        Allocation Form   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).        Allocation Preference   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).        Applicable Reduction Amount   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(a)(i).        Associated Employee Fund   means, with respect to any reference investment underlying a Notional Plan Investment, a co-investment or
feeder fund that is available primarily to employees of the Firm and is associated with such reference investment.        Award
Certificate  , with respect to any Participant, means a written document (including in electronic form) for each Total Notional Investment that sets forth the terms and conditions of such Participant s participation in the Plan. A
Participant s participation in the Plan shall be governed by the Plan, such Participant s Award Certificate or Certificates, as applicable, and, if and to the extent applicable pursuant to Section 16(e), the International Supplement.
       Board   means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.        Cancellation Event  , with respect to any Plan Interest of any Participant, shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate. Cancellation Events in respect of any Plan Interest related to a Fiscal Year Award shall be substantially similar to such events as set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant.        Closed-End Distribution Date   means, with respect to any Plan Interest of any Participant, any date, specified in the applicable Award
Certificate, as a Distribution Date for Proceeds with respect to Closed-End Investments.        Closed-End Investment   means a
Notional Plan Investment in a reference investment that generally does not permit redemptions by investors but makes distributions to investors from time to time following the sale, transfer or other disposition of its investments.        Code   means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.        Committee   means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any
other committee of the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.        Descriptive Materials   means all brochures, letters, memoranda or other documents from the Firm to a Participant regarding the Plan, including all electronic-based materials.         
   - 2 -   

Distribution Date   means, (i) with respect to a Closed-End Investment, (A) the
Earliest Distribution Date, if applicable, (B) any Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Dates (including the Final Distribution Date), if applicable, and (C) any other date specified as a Closed-End Distribution Date in the
Participant s applicable Award Certificate; and (ii) with respect to an Open-End Investment, the Earliest Distribution Date and any Subsequent Open-End Distribution Dates.        Earliest Distribution Date   means, with respect to any Plan Interest, the date, specified in the applicable Award Certificate, on which
Proceeds in respect of Notional Plan Investments shall commence being distributed to the applicable Participant.        Eligible
Person   means a professional employee of the Firm who is determined by the Committee to be eligible to participate in the Plan.        Executive Compensation Department   means Morgan Stanley s Executive Compensation Department or any other department of Morgan Stanley that succeeds to the functions of the Executive Compensation Department.
       Final Distribution Date   means, with respect to any Plan Interest of any Participant, the date, specified in the
applicable Award Certificate, on which the Firm shall make its final distribution with respect to such Plan Interest to such Participant in accordance with Section 10(a)(iii).        Firm   means Morgan Stanley together with its subsidiaries and other affiliates.        Fiscal Year   and   Fiscal Quarter   mean Morgan Stanley s Fiscal Year and Morgan Stanley s Fiscal Quarter,
respectively.        Fiscal Year Award   means an allocation to the Plan of a Participant s compensation that would
otherwise be mandatorily granted in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive compensation in respect of a Fiscal Year.        International Supplement   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16(e).        Investment Committee   means a committee of two or more officers of the Firm to whom the Administrator delegates the authority and responsibilities to select Notional Plan Investments.        Legal Requirement     means any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal
requirement.         
   - 3 -   

Morgan Stanley   means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
       Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate   means, for any period, the rate at which notional interest with respect to any Notional
Advance (or any portion thereof) shall accrue from the date that the Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is deemed to be notionally invested until and to the extent such Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is reduced by any Proceeds. Pursuant
and subject to Section 3(a)(v), the Firm reserves the right to revise the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate at any time and from time to time.        Notional Advance   means, with respect to any Participant Allocation, the notional amount, if any, that Morgan Stanley adds or will add to the Participant Allocation for notional investment in Notional Plan Investments in
accordance with Section 5.        Notional Plan Investment   means an investment designated by the Firm as a reference
investment for the benefit of the Plan. Reference investments underlying Notional Plan Investments may include proprietary investment funds of the Firm or  funds of funds  of the Firm that include investment funds sponsored or offered by
third parties. For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant s interest in any Notional Plan Investment shall be notional.        Open-End Investment   means a Notional Plan Investment in a reference investment that generally does not make distributions to its investors but permits investors to redeem their interest in the fund from time to time.
       Participant   means an Eligible Person who participates in the Plan.      A   Participant Allocation   means, with respect to any Participant, (i) a Fiscal Year Award, or (ii) a Special Award.
       Participant Applicable Rate   means, for any period, the rate at which notional interest may accrue with respect to:
     (i) Each Participant Allocation (or portion thereof), from, (A) in the case of a Fiscal Year Award, the date on which
the annual equity award for such Fiscal Year is granted (or such other date specified in the applicable Award Certificate) or (B) in the case of a Special Award, the grant date of such Special Award, in each case until the Firm notionally
allocates such Participant Allocation (or portion thereof) to one or more Notional Plan Investments;      (ii) Each Participant
Allocation, if the Firm determines that a Participant Allocation shall not be notionally invested in Notional Plan Investments, from the date on which the annual equity award for such Fiscal Year is granted (or, in the case of a Special Award, the
grant date of such Special Award) until the applicable Earliest Distribution Date;         
   - 4 -   

(iii) The Proceeds relating to a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to a
Closed-End Investment, from the date of such Realization until the applicable Distribution Date, as further set forth in Section 10(a) and (b), as applicable;      (iv) The Proceeds relating to a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to an Open-End Investment, from the date of such
Realization until the applicable Distribution Date, as further set forth in Section 10(c);      (v) The Proceeds relating
to a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to a Notional Plan Investment, from the date of the applicable Distribution Date to the actual date of distribution permitted by Section 11(a); and      (vi) Each Plan Termination Value, from the date of any termination of the Plan until the distribution of such Plan Termination Value on
the applicable Distribution Date.      Pursuant and subject to Section 3(a)(v), the Firm reserves the right to revise the Participant Applicable Rate at
any time and from time to time.        Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.        Plan Interest   means, with respect to any Participant Allocation, a Participant s Total Notional Investment (including any
notional interest accrued at the Participant Applicable Rate)  minus  the sum of such Participant s previously unreduced Notional Advances reflected in the Participant s Account with respect to such Participant Allocation (plus
accrued and previously unreduced notional interest thereon) and such Participant s previously unreduced Administration Fee.        Plan Termination Value   means, with respect to any Plan Interest in connection with the termination of this Plan, a Final Distribution Date, or a single Closed-End Distribution Date, the fair value (as determined by the
Firm) of such vested Plan Interest (or portion thereof), if any (together with any notional interest accrued thereon), on the effective date of such termination, or as of such Final Distribution Date or single Closed-End Distribution Date, as
applicable.        Proceeds   means, with respect to any Notional Plan Investment, (i) notional gross cash proceeds, if
any, that are Realized in respect of such Notional Plan Investment at any time,  plus  (ii) if there is an Associated Employee Fund, an additional amount equal to the difference between (A) the  carried interest  that would
be paid by third-party investors with respect to the reference investment underlying such Notional Plan Investment, and (B) the  carried interest  that would be paid by employee investors in an Associated Employee Fund. For the
avoidance of doubt, Proceeds shall be net of any fees or expenses charged to Morgan Stanley by any reference investment that relates to a Notional Investment.        Realization   or   Realize   means (i) with respect to a Closed-End Investment, the receipt of a distribution by an investor, had such investor received  
       
   - 5 -   

such a distribution from such Closed-End Investment; and (ii) with respect to an Open-End Investment, the receipt of a distribution or redemption
proceeds by an investor, had such investor received such a distribution or effected such a redemption from such Open-End Investment as of such Open-End Investment s most recent valuation date. For the avoidance of doubt, the re-investment of
proceeds by a Notional Plan Investment does not, itself, give rise to a Realization.        Section 409A   means
Section 409A of the Code, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor provisions thereto).        Securities Act   means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.        Special Award  
means a retention, new hire or similar award that is granted in the form of a participation in the Plan.        Subsequent Closed-End
Distribution Date  , with respect to any Plan Interest, means each date after the Earliest Distribution Date selected as a Distribution Date for Proceeds relating to Closed-End Investments. Any such selection may be made from a menu of
possible dates specified by the Firm, in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes.        Subsequent Open-End
Distribution Date  , with respect to any Plan Interest, means each date after the Earliest Distribution Date selected as a Distribution Date for Proceeds relating to Open-End Investments. Any such selection may be made from a menu of
possible dates specified by the Firm, in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes.        Total
Compensation   means (i) base salary, commissions and annual bonus, inclusive of the value of long-term incentive compensation, or what the Firm designates as  total reward  and (ii) for employees who are Investment
Representatives or Financial Advisors of the Global Wealth Management Group, gross compensation, pre-deductions, inclusive of the value of long-term incentive compensation, or what the Firm designates as  total reward .        Total Notional Investment   means, with respect to any Participant Allocation at any time, the interest in the Plan that is attributable
to such Participant Allocation at such time and any related Notional Advance.      SECTION 3 . Administration.       (a) The Committee shall administer the Plan. In addition to other express powers and authorizations that the Plan confers on the Committee, the Committee
shall have full power and authority, subject to the express provisions of the Plan, Legal Requirements and contractual provisions binding upon the Firm and any internal policies and procedures of the Firm:      (i) to determine the terms and conditions of each Award Certificate;         
   - 6 -   

(ii) to determine the pool of Eligible Persons;      (iii) to construe and interpret the Plan, any Award Certificate, the International Supplement or any summary of the foregoing (including
any Descriptive Materials);      (iv) to prescribe, amend, rescind or waive rules and procedures relating to the Plan with
respect to any and all Participants;      (v) to revise the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate and the Participant Applicable Rate;
     (vi) to waive any provision of the Plan or one or more Award Certificates with respect to any and all Participants;
     (vii) to vary the terms and conditions of participation in the Plan to take account of tax laws, securities laws and other
regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions; and      (viii) to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for
the administration of the Plan.      Except as expressly provided for in the Plan, the Committee s determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and
may be made selectively among Eligible Persons and Participants, whether or not such persons are similarly situated. All determinations by the Committee or the Administrator pursuant to Section 3(b), in administering, construing or interpreting
the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.      (b) The Committee may, but need not, from time to
time delegate such of its responsibilities under the Plan as it deems appropriate to the Administrator;  provided, however , that the Administrator is not authorized to designate Notional Plan Investments without the concurrence and
authorization of the Investment Committee. In connection with the performance of their responsibilities under the Plan, the Committee, the Administrator and the Investment Committee may consult with any third party they deem necessary or advisable,
including any outside consultant or advisor.      (c) Neither the Firm nor any member of the Board, the Committee, the Investment Committee,
the Administrator and their respective affiliates and employees shall be liable in any manner whatsoever in connection with the administration, construction or interpretation of the Plan, any Award Certificate or the Descriptive Materials, except
for any liability arising out of such person s willful misconduct. Under no circumstances shall any such person be liable for any act or omission of any other person. In the performance of its, his or her  
       
   - 7 -   

functions with respect to the Plan, each such person shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Firm s officers, the
Firm s accountants, the Firm s counsel, the Firm s tax advisors and any other person the Committee deems necessary or advisable, and no such person shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in reliance upon any such advice.
     (d) Any discretionary authority or obligation pursuant to the Plan shall not be applicable to the extent such discretionary authority or
obligation is prohibited by Section 409A, or would result in a Participant being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or would result in a Participant incurring
interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      SECTION 4 . Participant Allocation.       (a) In accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes, an Eligible Person may be permitted to express a preference to allocate a
portion of the compensation other than base salary that would otherwise be granted in the form of Morgan Stanley equity compensation or other mandatory long-term incentive compensation in respect of such Fiscal Year to the Plan (an
  Allocation Preference  ). Such Allocation Preference, which such Eligible Person shall make by submitting a form, including in electronic form (an   Allocation Form  ), on or prior to a date specified on such
Allocation Form, shall be irrevocable by the Eligible Person on or after such date. The Firm, in its sole and absolute discretion, reserves the right not to give effect to all or any portion of such Allocation Preference during the one complete day
after such Allocation Preference is irrevocable to the Eligible Person. The Firm shall give effect to such Eligible Person s Allocation Preference in its entirety, subject to (i) the eligibility criteria as determined by the Committee and
(ii) any adjustment thereto effected by the Firm in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, except to the extent not giving such effect is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not result in such Eligible Person being
required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or in an Eligible Person incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A. The Firm s final allocation
(  Allocation  ) of the non-cash component of such Eligible Person s Above Base Compensation shall not constitute a guarantee of Plan participation.      (b) The Firm shall issue to each Participant an Award Certificate setting forth the terms and conditions of such Participant s participation in the Plan.      (c) Each Participant Allocation shall accrue notional interest, (A) in the case of a Fiscal Year Award, at the Participant Applicable Rate from the
date that the annual equity award for such Fiscal Year is granted (or such other date specified in the applicable Award Certificate), in each case, unless the Firm determines otherwise in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm
establishes or (B) in the case of a Special Award, the grant date of such Special Award, in each case: (i) until the Firm notionally allocates such Participant  
       
   - 8 -   

Allocation (or a portion thereof) to one or more Notional Plan Investments pursuant to Section 7, or (ii) if the Firm does not notionally invest
such Participant Allocation (or a portion thereof) in one or more Notional Plan Investments, until the Earliest Distribution Date, on which date the Firm shall pay such Participant Allocation (or portion thereof) to such Participant.      (d) Participant Allocations are intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act. By participating in the Plan, each Participant shall be
deemed to acknowledge, represent and warrant to and agree with Morgan Stanley, and the Firm may require the Participant to affirmatively acknowledge, represent and warrant to and agree with Morgan Stanley, as follows:      (i) The Participant received and carefully reviewed the Descriptive Materials, and the Participant understands the information contained
therein, the risks associated with a Notional Plan Investment under the Plan and the conflicts that the Plan may present for the Firm and agrees to be bound by the terms of the Descriptive Materials;      (ii) The Participant had a reasonable opportunity to ask questions of and receive answers from a person or persons acting on behalf of
Morgan Stanley concerning the Plan and all such questions were answered to the Participant s full satisfaction;      (iii)
No oral or written representations were made to the Participant concerning the Plan other than as stated in any Award Certificate and/or the Descriptive Materials, and no oral or written information furnished to the Participant in connection with
the Plan was inconsistent with the information stated in the Descriptive Materials;      (iv) The Participant has adequate means
of providing for the Participant s current financial needs and contingencies, is able to bear the substantial economic risks of the Plan for an indefinite period of time, has no need for liquidity regarding the Participant s assets placed
in the Plan and, at the present time, could afford a complete loss of such assets;      (v) The Participant has such knowledge
and experience in financial, tax and business matters so as to enable the Participant to utilize the information made available to the Participant in connection with the Plan to evaluate the merits and risks of the Plan and to make an informed
decision with respect thereto;      (vi) The Participant is not relying on Morgan Stanley or any person or persons acting on
behalf of Morgan Stanley with respect to the tax and other economic considerations of the Plan;      (vii) The Participant
satisfies the eligibility requirements as determined by the Committee;         
   - 9 -   

(viii) The Participant shall provide such information and execute and deliver such
documents as may reasonably be requested by the Firm in connection with the Plan, including such information and documents as may reasonably be necessary to comply with any and all laws to which the Firm is subject, and such additional information
as the Firm may deem appropriate with regard to the Participant s eligibility (including documentation relating to the Participant s qualification as an Accredited Investor); and      (ix) The Participant shall keep confidential all matters relating to the Plan (including the terms of the Plan and any Award Certificate
and the Descriptive Materials), except to the extent such matters are publicly available (through no fault of the Participant) or as otherwise required by Legal Requirements. The Firm s Code of Conduct regarding confidential and proprietary
information shall cover such matters.      SECTION 5 . Notional Advance.       (a) In connection with the notional investment of any Participant Allocation (or portion thereof) in a Notional Plan Investment, an amount equal to a
multiple (which may include zero) of such Participant Allocation (or portion thereof), as determined in the discretion of the Firm, may be added to the Participant s Account for purposes of enhancing the leverage of the applicable Participant
Allocation in its notional investment in Notional Plan Investments. In accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes, an Eligible Person may be permitted to express a preference to receive a Notional Advance of a specified
amount with respect to any Participant Allocation.      (b) Each Notional Advance shall accrue notional interest at the Morgan Stanley
Applicable Rate (unless the Firm determines otherwise in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes) during the period that such Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is deemed to be outstanding ( i.e. , from the date
that the Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is deemed to be notionally invested until and to the extent such Notional Advance (or portion thereof) is reduced by any Proceeds).      (c) Any Notional Advance shall be satisfied only through reductions to: (i) any notional interest previously accrued at the Participant Applicable
Rate, or (ii) Proceeds in accordance with Section 10. No Participant shall be required to make any direct or out-of-pocket payment to the Firm in connection with any Notional Advance.      SECTION 6 . Establishment of Accounts.  The Firm shall establish an Account for each Participant, to which it shall credit such
Participant s Participant Allocations, any related Notional Advances, any notional interest accrued at the Participant Applicable Rate and any notional interest accrued at the Morgan Stanley Applicable Rate. Each Participant s Account
shall reflect such Participant s notional share of each Notional Plan Investment.         
   - 10 -   

SECTION 7 . Notional Plan Investments.       (a) The Firm shall designate Notional Plan Investments for the benefit of the Plan, and shall establish a purchase price, for purposes of the Plan, equal
to the fair value (as the Firm shall determine) of such Notional Plan Investments at the time of their designation. These Notional Plan Investments may differ for Participant Allocations granted in different Fiscal Years and for Special Awards.
Participants shall participate in each Notional Plan Investment  pro rata  based on their respective Total Notional Investments (unless the Firm determines otherwise, in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes). Each
Participant s notional share of any Notional Plan Investment shall be deemed to have been notionally funded, first, by such Participant s applicable Participant Allocation and, to the extent such Participant Allocation has been fully
notionally invested, the remaining Notional Plan Investment amount shall be deemed to have been notionally funded by any Notional Advance amount reflected in the Participant s Account with respect to such Participant Allocation (therefore, no
notional interest shall begin to accrue until such time as a Notional Plan Investment is deemed to be funded by such Notional Advance (or portion thereof)).      (b) Notional Plan Investments in respect of any given Fiscal Year or any Special Awards shall be indicated on the Executive Compensation Department website or through other means that the Firm shall determine and
communicate to Participants from time to time. The Firm may provide a Participant with a description of the related reference investments and their historical returns;  however , the Firm is not responsible for actions, statements or
performance of the Notional Plan Investments.      (c) The Firm may choose Notional Plan Investments based on a variety of factors, which may
include the Firm s own business interests and its relations with such reference investments or parties affiliated with such referenced funds. By participating in the Plan, each Participant shall be deemed to acknowledge the existence of actual
and potential conflicts of interest with the Firm and waive any claim with respect to the existence of any conflict of interest and the Firm may require each Participant to affirmatively make such acknowledgment and waiver.      (d) The performance of each Notional Plan Investment shall reflect all of the fees and costs of the related reference investment, including placement
agent and brokerage fees, which such reference investment may pay to the Firm if the Firm provides such services to it. The Firm may also act as the investment advisor or provide other services to such reference investment and receive fees for
providing these services. Fees paid by any reference investment will reduce the performance of such reference investment (and, accordingly, the performance of the Notional Plan Investment) and, therefore, will reduce the amount of the Firm s
distribution obligations to Participants under the Plan.      (e) Nothing in the Descriptive Materials shall be construed to confer on a
Participant the right to continue to have any particular Notional Plan Investment available for purposes of measuring the value of the Participant s Total Notional Investment.         
   - 11 -   

(f) The value of a Participant s Total Notional Investment is subject to risk at all times based
upon the performance of the Notional Plan Investments. If the value of the Notional Plan Investments decreases in the future, then the value of a Participant s Total Notional Investment may be lower than a Participant s applicable
Participant Allocation. Additionally, if the value of the Notional Plan Investments decreases in the future and proves to be less than the sum of the unreduced invested Notional Advance, accrued and unreduced notional interest, accrued and unreduced
Administration Fee and any Notional Advance committed but not yet notionally invested, a Participant will not be entitled to receive any of his or her applicable Participant Allocation with respect to such Total Notional Investment. Although a
Participant will not be an investor in any reference investments underlying the Notional Plan Investments, a Participant s Total Notional Investment will be determined by referencing the gains and losses attributable to the performance of such
Notional Plan Investments. In effect, the Firm is merely targeting the return and liquidity on such Notional Plan Investments and to the extent that the Firm incurs any costs in connection therewith or in connection with the administration of the
Plan, it has the right to adjust the return on a Participant s Notional Plan Investments to reflect these costs. Any distribution or other payment under the Plan is also subject to the risks associated with the Participant s status as an
unsecured general creditor of Morgan Stanley as described in Section 16(c).      SECTION 8.  Fees.       (a) Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator the Firm shall reduce each Participant s Account by a notional administration fee (the
  Administration Fee  ) in an amount that it determines is fair and appropriate. Any Administration Fee shall apply to all Participants in the same manner and shall be communicated to Participants in advance of any decision by
Eligible Persons to allocate their long-term incentive mix.      (b) The Administration Fee, which shall be applied against each
Participant s Account balance, shall accrue periodically in arrears (but shall not accrue any notional interest) and shall reduce the Participant s share of Proceeds as described in the distribution formula set forth below in
Section 10.      (c) The Administration Fee shall be satisfied only through reductions to: (i) a Participant s notional interest
previously accrued at the Participant Applicable Rate, or (ii) a Participant s share of any Proceeds in accordance with Section 10. No Participant shall be required to make any direct or out-of-pocket payment to the Firm in connection
with a Total Notional Investment.      (d) The Administration Fees are separate from any fees applicable to the Notional Plan Investments and
the related reference investments which, without limiting the generality of Section 7(d), are reflected in the net returns credited to a Participant s Account.       
  
   - 12 -   

SECTION 9 . Vesting.       (a) Terms and conditions relating to the vesting of a Participant s Plan Interest (including any consequences of a termination of such
Participant s employment) shall be set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate. Such terms and conditions with respect to any Participant in respect of any Fiscal Year Award shall be substantially similar to analogous terms and
conditions set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant in respect of such Fiscal Year.      (b) The
Firm may accelerate the vesting of a Participant s Plan Interest and may, in its sole discretion, determine other circumstances under which a Participant s Plan Interest shall vest. Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Certificate shall
entitle a Participant to request or receive any distribution or other payment upon the vesting of all or any portion of such Participant s Plan Interest.      (c) Even if a Participant holds a Plan Interest, whether or not fully vested, it may be canceled without any consideration upon the occurrence of a Cancellation Event prior to the Earliest Distribution Date. Upon such
occurrence, the Participant shall have no further interest in or entitlement under the Plan, including no right or entitlement to any Participant Allocation.      SECTION 10.  Distributions.       (a)  Closed-End Investments   Multiple Distribution
Dates . If a Participant s Award Certificate specifies multiple Closed-End Distribution Dates, this Section 10(a) shall apply to such Participant s applicable Total Notional Investment:      (i) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment on or prior to the Earliest Distribution Date of a vested Plan
Interest, the share of such Proceeds attributable to the Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest shall immediately be reduced by the sum of (A) the applicable, previously unreduced invested Notional Advance (plus accrued
and previously unreduced notional interest thereon), (B) any applicable, accrued and previously unreduced Administration Fee and (C) any committed but not yet notionally invested Notional Advance (such sum, the   Applicable
Reduction Amount  ). Any committed but not yet notionally invested Notional Advance will reduce the applicable Proceeds as determined in the discretion of the Firm prior to the date on which the Allocation Preferences become irrevocable and
such Proceeds may be withheld in escrow, accruing notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate. Any remaining Proceeds shall accrue notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization of such Proceeds until
such Earliest Distribution Date (unless  
       
   - 13 -   

the Firm determines otherwise in accordance with any rules and procedures that the Firm establishes). The Applicable Reduction Amount shall reduce the
portion of subsequent Proceeds attributable to such remaining Total Notional Investment (including, if applicable, Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after such Earliest Distribution Date and/or Proceeds in respect of an
Open-End Investment). Such remaining Proceeds shall be aggregated and distributed to such Participant on the applicable Earliest Distribution Date.      (ii) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after the Earliest Distribution Date of a vested Plan Interest, but on or prior to the Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Date of such
Plan Interest, the share of such Proceeds attributable to the remaining Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest, to the extent of such Realizations, shall be reduced and aggregated and distributed on such Subsequent Closed-End
Distribution Date in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i). The share of Proceeds attributable to the remaining Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest in respect of a Closed-End Investment Realized after
such Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Date and on or prior to the next Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Date shall be reduced and aggregated and distributed on such next Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Date.      (iii) If the last Subsequent Closed-End Distribution Date of a vested Plan Interest is such Plan Interest s Final Distribution Date,
then the Firm shall distribute to each Participant an amount equal to the sum of (i) the share of any undistributed Proceeds attributable to any remaining Total Notional Investment with respect to such Plan Interest, subject to any reductions,
and (ii) such Plan Termination Value with respect to such Plan Interest that relates to any then un-Realized Notional Plan Investments in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i) on such Final Distribution Date.   
  (b)  Closed-End Investments   Single Distribution Date.  If a Participant s Award Certificate specifies a single Closed-End
Distribution Date, this Section 10(b) shall apply to such Participant s applicable Total Notional Investment:      (i)
Proceeds in respect of any Closed-End Investment, if any ,  will be distributed on or as soon as administratively practicable after the single Closed-End Distribution Date (reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount in accordance with the
method described in Section 10(a)(i)). In addition, Morgan Stanley will distribute on such Closed-End Distribution Date any remaining Plan Termination Value with respect to any then un-Realized Closed-End Investments (these amounts shall be
reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i)).         
   - 14 -   

(ii) With respect to Realizations which occur prior to the single Closed-End Distribution
Date, the Proceeds, if any, from such Realizations may be allocated to a set of alternative notional investments within a Participant s Account until the Closed-End Distribution Date. Such an alternative notional investment menu will be
provided by the Firm and communicated to the Participant prior to the Earliest Distribution Date.      (c)  Open-End Investments .
     (i) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of an Open-End Investment, a Plan Interest s previously designated
percentage share thereof shall accrue notional interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization of such Proceeds until the Earliest Distribution Date relating to such Plan Interest. On such Earliest Distribution Date,
(A) the previously designated percentage share of such Proceeds relating to such Plan Interest (and any accrued notional interest thereon) shall be reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount in accordance with the method described in
Section 10(a)(i), and (B) after such reduction, the previously designated percentage share of such Proceeds relating to such Plan Interest, if any, shall be distributed to the applicable Participant.      (ii) With respect to any Proceeds in respect of an Open-End Investment Realized after the Earliest Distribution Date relating to a Plan
Interest, but on or prior to the next Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date relating to such Plan Interest, the previously designated percentage share thereof with respect to such Plan Interest shall accrue notional interest at the Participant
Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization relating to such Proceeds until such next Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date. On such Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date, (A) the previously designated percentage share of such Proceeds
(and any accrued notional interest thereon) relating to such Plan Interest will be reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount, in accordance with the method described in Section 10(a)(i), and (B) after such reduction, such previously
designated percentage share of such Proceeds relating to such Plan Interest, if any, will be distributed to the applicable Participant.      (iii) Until there are no more Subsequent Open-End Distribution Dates, with respect to any Proceeds in respect of an Open-End Investment Realized after the most recent Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date relating to
a Plan Interest, but on or prior to the next Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date relating to such Plan Interest, the previously designated percentage share thereof relating to such Plan Interest will accrue notional interest at the Participant
Applicable Rate from the date of the Realization relating to such Proceeds until such next Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date. On such Subsequent Open-End Distribution Date, (A) the previously designated percentage share of such Proceeds

- 15 -   

(and any accrued notional interest thereon) relating to such Plan Interest will be reduced by the Applicable Reduction Amount, in accordance with the method
described in Section 10(a)(i), and (B) after such reduction, the previously designated percentage share of such Proceeds relating to such Plan Interest, if any, will be distributed to the applicable Participant.      (d)  Distributions in Connection with a Termination of Employment . Terms and conditions relating to any distribution of a Participant s vested
Plan Interest in connection with a termination of such Participant s employment shall be set forth in such Participant s applicable Award Certificate. Such terms and conditions with respect to any Fiscal Year Award shall be consistent with
analogous terms and conditions set forth in the annual year-end equity compensation awards granted to such Participant in respect of such Fiscal Year.      (e)  Distributions in Connection with a Plan Termination . Upon a termination of the Plan, subject to any Cancellation Event, the Firm shall distribute to each Participant on the applicable Distribution Date an
amount equal to the sum of such Participant s Plan Termination Values (with notional interest accruing thereon at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of such termination until the date of distribution) in accordance with the method
described in Section 10(a)(i). The Firm may not accelerate any such distribution except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States
federal income tax purposes prior to the time of distribution or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      SECTION 11 . Distributions and Other Payments Generally.       (a) Whenever the Plan or a Participant s Award
Certificate designates a specific date or event for payment or distribution of amounts under the Plan, such payment or distribution will be considered to have been timely made, and neither a Participant nor any of a Participant s beneficiaries
or estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages based on a delay in payment or distribution, and the Firm shall have no liability to any Participant (or to any of a Participant s beneficiaries or estate) in respect of any such
delay, as long as payment or distribution is made by December 31 of the year in which occurs the specified date or event or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following such specified date or event. The Proceeds relating to
a Realization (or partial Realization) with respect to a Notional Plan Investment (after the reduction of such Proceeds pursuant to Section 10) shall accrue interest at the Participant Applicable Rate from the date of the applicable
Distribution Date to the actual date of distribution.      (b) The Firm shall not accelerate distributions or other payments under the Plan,
except to the extent accelerating distributions or other payments under the Plan is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause an Eligible Person to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant
Distribution Date or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.         
   - 16 -   

(c) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate to the contrary, if the Firm
considers a Participant to be one of its  specified employees  under Section 409A at the time of termination of such Participant s employment, any distribution or other payment of any deferred amounts that would otherwise be due
upon or as a result of such Participant s termination of employment, including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 11(d), will be delayed for six months after the Participant s termination of employment and shall be made on the
first business day following the date that is six months after such termination of employment, except to the extent that earlier distribution or payment is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income
for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the date of distribution or payment or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.      (d) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate to the contrary, distributions or other payments under the Plan shall be deferred with respect to a Participant if, at the time scheduled for such
distribution or payment (whether on a Distribution Date or at some other time), Morgan Stanley considers the Participant to be one of its executive officers and the Participant s compensation may not be fully deductible by virtue of
Section 162(m) of the Code. This deferral shall continue until the termination of the Participant s employment and, subject to Section 11(c), the Firm shall make any distribution or other payment in respect of the Participant s
vested Plan Interest on the date of the Participant s termination of employment.      (e) Unless otherwise set forth in the International
Supplement, all distributions or other payments under the Plan shall be made in United States dollars or the Participant s local currency.      (f) The Firm may, in its sole discretion and to the maximum extent permissible under applicable Legal Requirements, withhold from or offset against any distribution or other payment to which a Participant may be entitled under the Plan an
amount sufficient to satisfy (i) any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on the property or income received by the Participant pursuant to such distribution or payment and, (ii) exclusively in the case of a
distribution or payment that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, any other obligation that the Participant owes to the Firm. To the extent a Participant s Plan Interest constitutes a deferral of
compensation subject to Section 409A, the Firm may not offset from any distribution or payment in respect thereof any amounts that the Participant owes to the Firm with respect to any such other obligation except to the extent such offset is
not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.
        
   - 17 -   

(g) To the extent that the Plan or any Award Certificate provides for full or partial distribution or
other payment of a Participant s Plan Interest to be made upon or as a result of the Participant s termination of employment, the Participant will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment if, and only if, the
Participant has experienced a separation of service with the Participant s employer for purposes of Section 409A.      SECTION 12 . Transferability.       (a) No Participant may transfer (other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution), pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of or encumber such Participant s Total Notional Investment.      (b) During a
Participant s lifetime, the Firm shall make any distribution or other payment in respect of such Participant s Plan Interest only to such Participant. A Participant may designate in writing on a beneficiary designation form, in accordance
with procedures established by the Executive Compensation Department, a beneficiary or beneficiaries (including the Participant s estate) to receive all or part of the amounts that the Firm may be obligated to pay or distribute in respect of
such Participant s Plan Interest in the event of such Participant s death. A Participant may replace or revoke a designation of a beneficiary at any time by filing a new beneficiary designation form.      SECTION 13 . Withholding or Other Deductions.  The Firm may withhold or otherwise deduct from any amounts distributable or otherwise payable
under the Plan any such taxes or other amounts as may be required to be withheld or otherwise deducted pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements.      SECTION 14 . Special Awards.  In the sole discretion of the Firm, an Eligible Employee may be eligible to receive a Special Award. Upon the grant of such Special Award, such Eligible Employee shall be treated as a Participant for
all purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, terms and conditions relating to such Participant s participation in the Plan may differ from the analogous terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, in which
case such terms and conditions shall be set forth in such Participant s Award Certificate.      SECTION 15 . Termination and
Amendment.       (a) The Firm may terminate the Plan at any time in its sole discretion, subject to Section 10(e).      (b) The Firm may also alter, amend or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement at any time in its sole discretion. These
amendments may include changes that the Firm considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in any, or the adoption or interpretation of any new, Legal Requirement. The Firm may not amend or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the
International Supplement in a manner that would  
       
   - 18 -   

materially impair a Participant s participation in the Plan without the Participant s consent;  provided ,  however , that the Firm may,
without a Participant s consent alter, amend or modify the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement in any manner that the Firm considers necessary or advisable to comply with any Legal Requirement (including
Section 409A) and to ensure that no Participant would be required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the relevant Distribution Date or would result in a Participant incurring interest or additional tax
under Section 409A. No such action shall give rise to a claim of constructive termination on the part of such Participant. Any amendment or waiver of a provision of the Plan, any Award Certificate or the International Supplement (other than any
amendment or waiver applicable to all Participants, or similarly situated Participants, generally), which amendment or waiver operates in a Participant s favor or confers a benefit on the Participant, must be in writing and signed by the Global
Director of Human Resources or the Chief Administrative Officer (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective. The Firm shall notify Participants of any amendment to the Plan, any Award Certificate
or the International Supplement that is material, and shall notify affected Participants of any amendment that affects such Participants  rights.      SECTION 16 . Miscellaneous.       (a) The headings of sections herein are included solely for the
convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.      (b) THE PLAN AND ALL RIGHTS UNDER THE PLAN
(INCLUDING UNDER ANY AWARD CERTIFICATE OR THE INTERNATIONAL SUPPLEMENT) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY CONFLICTS IN CHOICE OF LAW, RULE OR PRINCIPLE THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE
REFER THE INTERPRETATION OF THE PLAN OR ANY SUCH RIGHT TO THE SUBSTANTIVE LAW OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION. FOLLOWING THE TIMELY AND PROPER EXHAUSTION OF APPLICABLE INTERNAL CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES, THE COURTS OF NEW YORK SHALL HAVE EXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION OVER THE PLAN AND ANY DISPUTE ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE PLAN, A PARTICIPANT S PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN OR RIGHTS UNDER THE PLAN.      (c) Except as set forth in the International Supplement, neither the Plan, any Award Certificate, the International Supplement nor the Descriptive Materials shall create or be construed to create a trust with respect
to the Plan nor create or be construed to create a separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Firm, a Participant or any other person nor create or be construed to create a segregation by the Firm of assets to fund the Plan.
To the extent any Participant has a right to receive distributions or other payments from the Firm pursuant to the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Firm.         
   - 19 -   

(d) The Firm has no obligation to invest amounts corresponding to a Participant s Participant
Allocation or Notional Advance and/or any Proceeds with respect to Notional Plan Investments. If the Firm invests amounts corresponding to a Participant s Participant Allocation or Notional Advance in any Notional Plan Investment, such
investment shall not confer on such Participant any right or interest in any such Notional Plan Investment. The Participant shall have no ownership or other interest in any financial or other instrument or arrangement that the Firm may acquire or
enter into to hedge its obligations under the Plan.      (e) A Participant s participation in the Plan shall be conditioned on the Firm
making any filings and the Firm s receipt of any consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable Legal Requirements. To the extent necessary to comply with the local Legal Requirements of any
jurisdiction in which the Firm implements the Plan, the Firm may supplement the Plan and/or the Award Certificate with a supplement (the   International Supplement  ), which shall set forth certain terms and conditions applicable to
such implementation in such jurisdiction. If there is a conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions contained in the International Supplement on an issue pertinent to such jurisdiction, then the provisions of such International
Supplement shall govern.      (f) Neither the Plan, any Award Certificate, the International Supplement, the Descriptive Materials nor any
interpretation, determination or other action taken or omitted to be taken pursuant to the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing a Participant s employment, a discretionary bonus or any particular level of bonus, compensation or benefits, as
giving a Participant any right to continued employment, during any period, nor shall they be construed as giving a Participant any right to be reemployed by the Firm following any termination of employment. The Firm reserves the right not to make
available any plan similar to the Plan (in whole or in part), nor to permit any future participation after Allocations are made with respect to Above Base Compensation in respect of any given Fiscal Year or after a Special Award is granted.
     (g) If any provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction or as to any Participant, or would disqualify the Plan or such Award Certificate under any Legal Requirement, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to any such Legal Requirement, or if it cannot be construed or
deemed amended without materially altering the intent of the Plan or such Award Certificate, then such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction or as to such Participant, and the remainder of the Plan or such Award Certificate shall
remain in full force and effect.       [END OF THE PLAN]        [REMAINDER OF PAGE LEFT BLANK]          
   - 20 -   

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.53>
 6
 dex1053.htm
 AMENDMENT TO OUTSTANDING STOCK OPTION AND STOCK UNIT AWARDS

Amendment to Outstanding Stock Option and Stock Unit Awards 

EXHIBIT 10.53        M ORGAN  S TANLEY         Certificate of Amendment for Certain Fiscal
[    ] Annual Discretionary Retention        Awards of Stock Units and Stock Options       This Certificate of Amendment sets forth amendments to certain Discretionary Retention Awards of
stock units and stock options that have been awarded under Morgan Stanley equity compensation plans.   1    Morgan Stanley has made these amendments
pursuant to its authority to amend outstanding awards under the relevant plans. The amendments fall into two categories.       

Certain of the amendments are intended to ensure that your awards comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code relating to the
taxation of deferred compensation. Stock units under Morgan Stanley equity compensation plans are generally considered deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A, and stock options could be considered deferred compensation if they did
not meet the requirements of Section 409A. If your awards did not comply with Section 409A, you could be required to recognize income before your stock units convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or before you exercise your
stock options, and you could incur interest and additional taxes.          

Morgan Stanley has introduced certain other amendments to outstanding awards of stock units and stock options that provide enhanced benefits to you upon certain
terminations of employment.         This Certificate of Amendment applies to awards for the fiscal year ended November 30,
[    ] (   Fiscal Year [    ]   ).      This Certificate of Amendment applies only
to your Fiscal Year [    ] award. You may have other Morgan Stanley equity awards. You will receive a separate certificate of amendment setting forth the Section 409A amendments applicable to such other awards.   

I.   
   TERMS OF STOCK OPTIONS         The section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Special Provision for Executive Officers  is deleted in its entirety.   2          

1      
    For certain years or certain participants, awards may consist exclusively of stock units or stock options. In such
cases, only the provisions of this form of Award Certificate that relate to the type of award granted will be included.      

2      
    Does not apply for certain years or certain participants.            
   - 1 -   

II.   
   TERMS OF STOCK UNITS          

A.  
  Accelerated conversion        A new subsection (c) is added
to the section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Vesting schedule and conversion  as follows.       (c)   Accelerated conversion  . Morgan Stanley shall have no right to accelerate
the conversion of any of your stock units, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not result in your being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before your
units convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or your incurring additional tax or interest under Section 409A. If any stock units are converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock prior to the Scheduled Conversion Date pursuant to
this subsection (c), these shares may not be transferable and may remain subject to applicable vesting, cancellation and withholding provisions, as determined by Morgan Stanley. [The shares delivered upon conversion of stock units pursuant to
Section 2(b) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions, other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Firm s policies, or to cancellation under the circumstances set forth in Section 15(c) [ which, as
renumbered, is the section of your Covered Award Certificates entitled  Cancellation of awards under certain circumstances  ]]   3    

B.  
  Special Provision for certain employees        The section of
your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Special provisions for certain employees  is amended in its entirety to read as follows.         Special provision for certain employees  .      Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
Award Certificate, the conversion of your vested stock units into Morgan Stanley common stock will be deferred if, at the time scheduled for conversion (whether on the Scheduled Conversion Date or some other time), Morgan Stanley considers you to be
one of its executive officers and your compensation may not be fully deductible by virtue of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. This deferral will continue until your Separation from Service, and your vested stock units will convert
to Morgan Stanley common stock upon your Separation from Service.        

C.  
  Dividend equivalent payments        The second paragraph of the
section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Dividend equivalent payments  is amended in its entirety to read as follows.       

3      
    Bracketed text does not apply for certain years or certain participants.            
   - 2 -   

Morgan Stanley will decide on the form of payment and may pay dividend equivalents in shares of
Morgan Stanley common stock, in cash or in a combination thereof. Morgan Stanley will pay the dividend equivalent when it pays the corresponding dividend on its common stock. Because dividend equivalent payments are considered part of your
compensation for income tax purposes, they will be subject to applicable tax and other withholding obligations.        

D.  
  Specified Employees        A new section entitled
 Specified Employees  is inserted into your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate. The new section is inserted following the section entitled  Change in Control and Change in Ownership  and reads in its
entirety as follows:        Specified Employees .      Notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate, if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its  specified employees  as defined in Section 409A at the time of your Separation from Service,
the conversion of any of your stock units that otherwise would convert upon your Separation from Service (including, without limitation, stock units whose conversion was deferred due to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as provided
in [ the section of the Award Certificate entitled  Special provisions for certain employees  ]) will be delayed for six months after your Separation from Service, and such stock units will convert to Morgan Stanley common stock on
the first business day following the date that is six months after your Separation from Service; provided, however, that in the event that your death, your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your
termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set forth in [ paragraph (b) of the section of your Award Certificate entitled  Governmental Service  ] occurs at any time after the Date of the Award, payment will be
made in accordance with [ the sections of your Award Certificate entitled  Death during Employment ,  Death after termination of Employment  or  Governmental Service  ], as applicable.        

III.   
   GENERAL TERMS OF STOCK UNITS AND STOCK OPTIONS          

A.  
  Death during Employment        The first paragraph of subsection
(a) of the section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement  is amended in its entirety to read as follows.       (a)  Death during Employment . If your Employment terminates due to death, all of your unvested stock units and unvested stock options will
vest on the date of your death. Your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock and be delivered to the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to [ the   
       
   - 3 -   

section of your Award Certificate entitled  Designation of a beneficiary  ] upon your death, provided that your estate or beneficiary
notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death. Your stock options will remain outstanding until the Expiration Date, and your beneficiary or the legal representative of your estate, as applicable, may exercise them until the
Expiration Date.        

B.  
  Death after termination of Employment        The first paragraph
of subsection (b) of the section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement  is amended in its entirety to read as follows.       (b) Death after termination of Employment. If you die after the termination of your Employment any vested stock units that you held at the time of
your death will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock and be delivered to the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to [ the section of your Award Certificate entitled    Designation of a beneficiary  ] or the legal
representative of your estate, as applicable, upon your death, provided that your estate or beneficiary notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death. Any unvested stock options that you held at the time of your death will vest
on the date of your death, and your beneficiary or the legal representative of your estate, as applicable, may exercise such vested stock options (and any of your stock options that were vested as of your termination date) after your death to the
extent and for the period of time that you would have been permitted to exercise your stock options at the time of your death.        

C.  
  Governmental Service        A new section entitled
   Governmental Service    is inserted into your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate. The new section is inserted between the sections entitled  Involuntary termination by the Firm  and  Change
in Control and Change in Ownership  and reads in its entirety as follows:       (a)   General treatment of awards upon
Governmental Service Termination  . If your Employment terminates in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in [ the section of your Award Certificate entitled  Cancellation of awards under
certain circumstances  ] then, provided that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section entitled  Governmental Service , all of your unvested stock
units and stock options will vest on the date of your Governmental Service Termination. Your vested stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date of your Governmental Service Termination. The transfer restrictions set
forth in this Award Certificate will no longer apply to your Option Shares,   4    and your stock options will expire on       

4     
  Referred to as  Net Option Shares  in awards for certain years or certain participants.           
   - 4 -   

the date otherwise provided for in [ the section of your Award Certificate entitled  Expiration date  ] or [ the section of your Award
Certificate entitled  Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement  ], as applicable;  provided ,  however , that Morgan Stanley will cancel any of your stock options at an earlier date upon your written request.   
  (b)   General treatment of vested awards upon acceptance of employment at a Governmental Employer following termination of Employment  . If
your Employment terminates other than in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event and, following your termination of Employment, you accept employment with a Governmental Employer, then, provided that you sign an
agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section entitled  Governmental Service , all of your outstanding vested stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common
stock, and the transfer restrictions set forth in this Award Certificate will no longer apply to your Option Shares, upon your commencement of such employment, provided you present the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result
of such employment the divestiture of your continued interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law
or conflict of interests law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer.      (c)   Repayment obligation  . If you engage in any
activity constituting a cancellation event set forth in [ the section of your Award Certificate entitled  Cancellation of awards under certain circumstances  ] within the applicable period of time that would have resulted in
cancellation of all or a portion of your stock units (had they not converted to shares pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) above), stock options or Option Shares, you will be required to pay to Morgan Stanley an amount equal to
(i) the number of stock units that would have been canceled upon the occurrence of such cancellation event, multiplied by the fair market value, determined using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley, of Morgan Stanley common
stock on the date your stock units converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock plus (ii) the difference between the fair market value of the shares issued upon exercise of any such options (determined as of the date of exercise using a
methodology approved by the Firm) and the aggregate exercise price of such options, plus (iii) interest on the amounts described in (i) and (ii) at the average rate of interest Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial
institutions during the period from the date of such conversion or exercise, as applicable, through the date preceding the payment date.        

D.  
  Change in Control and Change in Ownership        The sentence in
the section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Change in Control and Change in Ownership  that states that your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock as soon as
practicable after a Change in Ownership is amended in its entirety to read as follows.         
   - 5 -   

Your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock upon a Change in
Ownership.        

E.  
  Satisfaction of obligations        Subsection (a) of the
section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate entitled  Satisfaction of obligations  is amended in its entirety to read as follows.       Upon exercise of stock options, Morgan Stanley may withhold a number of shares sufficient to satisfy any obligation that you owe to the Firm and any tax or other withholding obligations. Morgan Stanley may not
withhold shares upon conversion of stock units, and may not withhold the payment of dividend equivalents on your stock units or subject dividend equivalents to deferral, to satisfy obligations that you owe to the Firm except (i) to the extent
authorized under [ the sections of your Award Certificate entitled  Dividend equivalent payments  and  Tax and other withholding obligations  ], relating to tax and other withholding obligations or, otherwise, (ii) to
the extent such withholding is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of conversion of your stock units or to incur interest or additional tax
under Section 409A.       In addition, subsection (c) of such section (but not the text following subsection [ ], which
text begins  Morgan Stanley s determination of the amount   ) is deleted.       

F.   
    Ownership and possession   5            The last sentence of subsection (a) of the section of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award
Certificate entitled  Ownership and possession  is deleted.       

G.  
  Rule of construction for timing of conversion        A new
section entitled  Rule of construction for timing of conversion  is inserted following the section entitled  Governing law.  The new section reads in its entirety as follows.       Whenever this Award Certificate provides for your stock units to convert to shares on the
Scheduled Conversion Date or upon a different specified event or date, such conversion will be considered to have been timely made, and neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages based
on a delay in payment, and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate) in respect of any such delay, as long as payment is made by December 31 of the year in which occurs the applicable Scheduled
Conversion Date or such other specified event or date or, if later, by the 15   th    day of the third calendar month following such specified event or
date.        

5      
    Does not apply for certain years or certain participants.            
   - 6 -   

H.  
  Defined terms         
    For purposes of the stock units included in your Covered Awards, a new definition of  Change in Ownership  is inserted as follows. The original
definition of  Change in Ownership  set forth in your Covered Award Certificates continues to apply for purposes of the stock options included in such awards.       A  Change in Ownership  shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following conditions shall have been satisfied:      (1) any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under Section 409A), other than (i) any employee plan established by Morgan Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any group
of employees holding shares subject to agreements relating to the voting of such shares, (iii) Morgan Stanley or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (iv) an underwriter temporarily holding
securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (v) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of Morgan Stanley in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Morgan Stanley, is or becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person(s) any securities acquired directly from Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the
acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing more than 50% of either the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of Morgan Stanley;      (2) a change in the composition of the Board such that, during any 12-month period, the individuals who, as of the beginning of such period, constitute
the Board (the    Existing Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least 50% of the Board;  provided, however , that any individual becoming a member of the Board subsequent to the beginning of such period whose
election, or nomination for election by Morgan Stanley s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors immediately prior to the date of such appointment or election shall be considered as though such individual
were a member of the Existing Board;      (3) the consummation of a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley with any other corporation or
other entity, or the issuance of voting securities in connection with a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Morgan Stanley) pursuant to applicable stock exchange requirements, provided that immediately
following such merger or consolidation       

6     
  Does not apply for certain years or certain participants.           
   - 7 -   

the stockholders of the other corporation or other entity own securities representing more than 50% of the total voting power of Morgan Stanley stock (or if
Morgan Stanley is not the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation, securities representing more than 50% of the total voting power of the stock of such surviving entity), but not counting for purposes thereof any shares of Morgan Stanley
stock that such stockholders owned immediately prior to such merger or consolidation (or if Morgan Stanley is not the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation, not counting any securities of the surviving entity into which any shares of
Morgan Stanley stock that such stockholders owned immediately prior to such merger or consolidation are converted); and provided, further, that a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Morgan Stanley (or similar
transaction) in which no person (as determined under Section 409A) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person any securities
acquired directly from Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing more than 50% of either the then outstanding shares of Morgan Stanley common stock
or the combined voting power of Morgan Stanley s then outstanding voting securities shall not be considered a Change in Ownership; or      (4) the complete liquidation of Morgan Stanley or the sale or disposition by Morgan Stanley of all or substantially all of Morgan Stanley s assets in which any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under
Section 409A) acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from Morgan Stanley that have a total gross fair market value equal to more than 40% of the
total gross fair market value of all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.      Notwithstanding
the foregoing, (i) no Change in Ownership shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately
prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns substantially all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such transaction or series of
transactions and (ii) no event or circumstances described in any of clauses (1) through (4) above shall constitute a Change in Ownership unless such event or circumstances also constitute a change in the ownership or effective control
of Morgan Stanley, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of Morgan Stanley s assets, as defined in Section 409A and the regulations and guidance thereunder. In addition, no Change in Ownership shall be deemed to have occurred upon
the acquisition of additional control of Morgan Stanley by any one person or more than one person acting as a group that is considered to effectively control Morgan Stanley.         
   - 8 -   

For purposes of the provisions of this Award Certificate, terms used in the definition of a Change in
Ownership shall be as defined or interpreted pursuant to Section 409A.        

2.  
  Governmental Employer        A new definition of
 Governmental Employer  is inserted into your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate as follows, in the appropriate alphabetical order.        Governmental Employer  means a governmental department or agency, self-regulatory agency or other public service employer.        

3.  
  Governmental Service Termination        A new definition of
 Governmental Service Termination  is inserted into your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate as follows, in the appropriate alphabetical order.        Governmental Service Termination  means the termination of your Employment in connection with your commencement of employment at a
Governmental Employer; provided that you have presented the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such new employment, the divestiture of your continued interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of
Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer.        

4.  
  Scheduled Conversion Date        The words  as soon
thereafter as administratively practicable  or similar expressions, are deleted from the definition of  Scheduled Conversion Date.        

5.  
  Separation from Service        A new definition of
 Separation from Service  is inserted into your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate as follows, in the appropriate alphabetical order.        Separation from Service  means a separation from service with the Firm for purposes of Section 409A determined using the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) or
any successor regulation thereto. For purposes of this definition, Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries and affiliates include (and are limited to) any corporation that is in the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of
Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) as Morgan Stanley and any trade or business that is under common control with Morgan Stanley (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code), determined in each case in
accordance with the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).          
   - 9 -   

IV.   
   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS         The modifications set
forth in this Certificate of Amendment may result in renumbering of certain sections of your Fiscal Year [    ] Award Certificate, as described above. Cross-references in your Fiscal Year [    ] Award
Certificate shall be understood to be updated to reflect such renumbering.      Except as modified herein, your Fiscal Year
[    ] award is not modified by this Certificate of Amendment and shall continue to be governed in accordance with their terms.      Section 409A was adopted on October 3, 2004. Since that date, Morgan Stanley has administered its equity compensation plans and awards thereunder in good faith compliance with the statutory text and the applicable guidance issued
from time to time by the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service. All amendments set forth in this Certificate of Amendment have or will become effective on or before January 1, 2009.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Morgan Stanley has duly executed and delivered this Amendment to your Award Certificate(s) as of January 1, 2009.

MORGAN STANLEY   

/s/ Thomas Nides    
 
  Thomas Nides   
 
  Chief Administrative Officer   

- 10 -   

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 7
 dex1054.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY COMPENSATION INCENTIVE PLAN

Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.54        MORGAN STANLEY COMPENSATION INCENTIVE PLAN        PLAN DOCUMENT       This plan document sets forth the terms and conditions of the Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan (   MSCIP    or the
   Plan   ). The Plan provides for the establishment of Accounts for Participants, for administration purposes only, which Accounts shall at all times represent contingent and unsecured contractual obligations of Morgan Stanley.
     As described herein, the Administrator may from time to time create, terminate, expand or limit programs under the Plan with respect to
certain groups of employees and add or expand programs under the Plan for other groups of employees. Any program under the Plan may, if the Administrator so determines, be structured and maintained to qualify as a Top Hat Plan. Unless otherwise
noted, references herein to MSCIP or the Plan include any program created under the Plan from time to time.      Capitalized terms used herein
without definition have the meanings set forth in Section 19 or the applicable Award Certificate.       

1.   
    Purposes and General Provisions.          MSCIP is a
long-term incentive plan. The Plan is intended to attract, retain and motivate employees and to compensate them for their contributions to the Firm. The Plan may also be used as a vehicle to increase the alignment of the interests of certain
designated employees of the Firm with the interests of the Firm s clients and shareholders in Firm funds by providing for long-term incentive awards that are notionally invested in referenced funds organized or managed by the Firm. Subject to
the terms and conditions of the Plan set forth herein and of the applicable Award Certificate, Eligible Employees in certain programs under the Plan may be able to express a preference as to how they would like their Account Value to be notionally
allocated among the Notional Investments available under the Plan for purposes of measuring the increase or decrease in the value of their Account.       

2.   
    Administration.          (a)  Authority .
     (i) Morgan Stanley is the sponsor of the Plan. The Compensation Committee is responsible for administering the Plan,
including, without limitation, adopting rules and procedures for determining the Notional Investments offered, determining the terms and conditions of a Participant s Award or Account Value and interpreting the Plan provisions, Award
Certificates and any Descriptive Materials. The Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, delegate some or all of its authority and responsibilities under to the Plan to a committee of the Firm or to one or more senior officers of the
Firm, such  

as Morgan Stanley s Chief Administrative Officer, and may provide that any committee of the Firm to which, or any senior officer of the Firm to whom, it
delegates authority to administer the Plan may further delegate such authority to one or more officers of the Firm.      (ii)
The Compensation Committee and any committee of the Firm to which, or any officer of the Firm to whom, authority to administer the Plan is delegated pursuant to Section 2(a)(i), and all members of any such committee are referred to herein,
insofar as they are acting pursuant to authority granted or delegated pursuant to the Plan, as the    Administrator   . Each interpretation, determination or other action made or taken pursuant to the Plan by the Administrator
from time to time shall be made or taken in its sole discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.      (b)  No
Liability . The Administrator shall not be liable for anything whatsoever in connection with the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, any interpretation, determination or other action taken or not taken in administering the
Plan, except the Administrator s own willful misconduct. In the performance of its functions with respect to the Plan, the Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Firm s officers, the
Firm s accountants, the Firm s counsel and any other party the Administrator deems necessary or advisable to consult, and the Administrator shall not be liable for any interpretation, determination or other action taken or not taken in
reliance upon any such advice.       

3.   
    Eligibility.          The Administrator will
determine the eligibility criteria applicable for each Award granted under the Plan and Awards granted under any program under the Plan. In the case of any program that is intended to qualify as a Top Hat Plan, the Administrator may establish or
adjust eligibility criteria that in its judgment are appropriate to maintain such qualification.       
    The Administrator will determine
the type and quantum of each Award. Each such determination may, in the sole discretion of the Administrator, apply with respect to an individual Participant, certain categories of Participants or Participants in certain programs under the Plan.
     The Administrator may permit some or all Eligible Employees to express a preference to allocate a portion of their compensation to MSCIP
in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. Any such allocation preferences shall be made by a date specified by the Administrator and shall be subject to revocation or reduction by the Administrator, provided that any such revocation or reduction
shall be made by the allocation preference deadline applicable to the Eligible Employee unless making such revocation or reduction at a later time would not result in the imposition of interest or additional tax under Section 409A.   
     
   2   

5.   
    Vesting and Other Terms.          The Administrator
will determine the vesting schedule, as well as any other restrictions, applicable to a Participant s Account Value (which may include, without limitation, the effects of termination of employment and cancellation of the Account Value under
specified circumstances). The Administrator may also establish other terms and conditions applicable to a Participant s Account Value, including, without limitation, the consequences of a Participant s death. The vesting schedule and any
such other restrictions or terms and conditions will be set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.       
    (a)  Credits and Charges to a
Participant s Account . A Participant s Award shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of a date determined by the Administrator. A Participant s Account shall also be credited (or debited) with returns (or losses) on
the Participant s Notional Investments following the date on which the Participant s Awards are credited. A Participant s Account Value shall be reduced to reflect any distributions to the Participant or any of the Participant s
Beneficiaries.      (b)  Notional Allocation Parameters .      (i) The Administrator will establish rules for how a Participant s Account Value shall be notionally allocated among the available
Notional Investments. These rules may vary for certain categories of Participants or Participants in certain programs under the Plan. The Administrator may determine that, for certain categories of Participants or Participants in certain programs
under the Plan, the entire Account Value will be notionally allocated to a single Notional Investment or notionally allocated in fixed percentages among two or more referenced Notional Investments. The Administrator may also determine for certain
categories of Participants, or Participants in certain programs under the Plan, minimum and/or maximum percentages of their Account Value that must be notionally allocated to referenced Notional Investments. The notional allocation requirements
applicable to a Participant will be communicated to the Participant by means of the applicable Award Certificate or the Descriptive Materials or through such other means of communication as the Administrator may select.      (ii) To the extent that the notional allocation rules established by the Administrator permit a Participant to request changes to the
notional allocation of all or a portion of the Participant s Account Value among the Notional Investments then available under the Plan, any such request shall be made in accordance with procedures and at such times as established by the
Administrator from time to time. In this regard, it is noted specifically that the Administrator may determine, and may change from time to time, (i) the frequency of permitted notional reallocations and (ii) the minimum percentage of the
Account Value that is required, and the maximum percentage of the Account Value that is permitted,  
       
   3   

to be notionally allocated to one or more Notional Investments, and, in each case, such changes may apply to existing as well as future notional allocations
to Notional Investments. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the Administrator may make changes in order, among other things, to reflect limitations or restrictions that would apply to actual investors in the Referenced Funds.
No notional reallocation that a Participant requests shall be honored to the extent that it would conflict with the minimum and/or maximum notional allocation requirements that the Administrator may establish from time to time.      (c)  Notional Allocations Generally . The notional allocation of a Participant s Account Value will remain at the ultimate discretion of the
Firm and will be made exclusively for the purpose of determining the Participant s Account Value from time to time in accordance with the Plan. Participant Accounts will not be invested in the Referenced Funds, and Participants will not become
direct investors in any of the Referenced Funds by virtue of their participation in the Plan.      (d)  Determination of Account Value .
The Administrator shall from time to time calculate each Participant s Account Value based on the Participant s Awards and the deemed notional allocation of the Participant s Account among the Notional Investments available to the
Participant. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the rate of return of any Notional Investment over the relevant measurement period will track the performance of the relevant Referenced Fund. Calculation of the Participant s
Account Value as of any given date will be based on the information available to the Administrator as of the date of determination, which information may include estimates, and, where information about a specific Notional Investment is not available
to the Administrator, may be based on information, including estimates, relating to other investment vehicles that the Administrator determines to be reasonably similar to the Notional Investment in question. Following the commencement of
distribution of a Participant s Account Value to the Participant, the Administrator shall continue to calculate the Participant s Account Value from time to time in the manner described above, taking into account distributions from the
Participant s Account. The Firm s valuation of a Participant s Account Value shall be conclusive and binding.      (e)
 Selection of Notional Investments; Conflicts of Interest .      (i) The Administrator shall choose the Notional
Investments available under the Plan. The Notional Investments available from time to time will be indicated on the Executive Compensation Department website or through other means that the Administrator shall determine and communicate to
Participants from time to time. The Firm may provide a Participant with a description of the Referenced Funds and their historical returns;  provided ,  however , that the Firm shall not be responsible for the accuracy of any such
description that the Firm obtains from a Referenced Fund or a party acting on its behalf or bases on information obtained from a Referenced Fund or a party acting on its behalf. Under no circumstances will the Firm be responsible for actions,
statements or performance of any Referenced Fund.         
   4   

(ii) The Administrator may choose the Notional Investments available under the Plan based
on a variety of factors, which may include, without limitation, the Firm s own business interests and its relations with the Referenced Funds or parties affiliated with the Referenced Funds. Participants should be aware of the existence of
actual and potential conflicts of interest with the Firm and are considered to waive any claim with respect to the existence of any conflict of interest. The Administrator may require each Participant to affirmatively make such acknowledgment and
waiver.      (iii) The performance of each Notional Investment shall reflect all of the fees and costs of the Referenced Fund,
including, without limitation, brokerage and other fees, which the Referenced Fund may pay to the Firm if the Firm provides certain services to the Referenced Fund. The Firm may also act as the investment advisor or provide other services to the
Referenced Fund and receive fees for providing these services. Fees paid by a Referenced Fund will reduce the performance of the Referenced Fund (and accordingly the performance of the Notional Investment) and, therefore, will reduce the Firm s
payment obligations to Participants under the Plan.      (f)  Right to Change Notional Investments and Notional Allocations Thereto . The
Administrator may, from time to time in its sole discretion, change the Notional Investments available to Participants or notionally allocate a Participant s Account to different Notional Investments than those requested by the Participant.
Among other things, this means that the Firm has the absolute right to replace a Participant s Notional Investments with different Notional Investments and/or impose additional investment conditions and restrictions on the Notional Investments
(including restrictions on a Participant s ability to notionally allocate into, or notionally reallocate away from, a Notional Investment). Nothing in this plan document, any Award Certificate or any Descriptive Materials shall be construed to
confer on a Participant the right to continue to have any particular Notional Investment available for purposes of measuring the value of the Participant s Account.      (g)  Amounts at Risk . The value of a Participant s Account is subject to risk at all times based upon the performance of the Notional Investments to which the Participant s Account is notionally
allocated and based upon currency fluctuation. If the value of a Participant s Notional Investments decreases in the future, the value of the Participant s Account may be lower than the Participant s original Awards. Although a
Participant will not be an investor in the Referenced Funds underlying the Notional Investments, a Participant s Account will be subject to gains and losses attributable to the performance of the Notional Investments to which the
Participant s Account Value is notionally allocated. Participants will be subject to the risks that an actual investor in such Notional Investments would incur. To the extent that an actual investor in any such Notional Investment would incur
costs in connection therewith, the Firm may adjust the return on a Participant s Notional Investments to reflect these costs. Payment of the Participant s Account is also subject to the risks associated with the Participant s status
as an unsecured general creditor of Morgan Stanley as described in Section 9.         
   5   

(h)  Administration Fees . In the discretion of the Administrator, Awards may be subject to a
one-time set-up fee and Account Values may be subject to a periodic administration fee (collectively, the    Administration Fees   ) determined by the Administrator from time to time and set forth in the applicable Award
Certificate or Descriptive Materials. The Administration Fees are separate from any fees and costs of the related Referenced Funds that affect the performance of the related Notional Investments and are reflected in the net returns credited to a
Participant s Account. Without limiting the generality of the two preceding sentences, in connection with any hedge funds, hedge fund indices and other alternative Notional Investments that may be offered under the Plan, to the extent offerings
of such Notional Investments result in unpredictable expenses or costs to the Firm, the Firm has the absolute right to impose additional fees on a Participant s Account Value.      (i)  Other Plans . If a Participant becomes eligible to participate in MSCIP or a program similar to MSCIP with respect to any other award, or if a
Participant has already received awards pursuant to another incentive plan, the Firm may, for administrative convenience, maintain a single Account to record a Participant s awards delivered under such plans or programs (and amounts credited to
or debited from such awards) under MSCIP and any similar programs. The portion of a Participant s Account corresponding to each Award shall be governed by the terms and conditions applicable to each such Award.       

7.   
    Manner of Payment.          (a)  Form of
Payment . Unless the Administrator determines otherwise in its sole discretion, all payments under the Plan to a Participant (or a Participant s Beneficiary) shall be made in the Participant s (or Beneficiary s) local currency.
     (b)  Payment Date . Payments of a Participant s Account will be made at such time or times as the Administrator shall determine
at the time the Award is granted. The Administrator may provide for a different payment schedule for certain Participants or certain categories of Participants (such as Participants in a designated program or designated programs) based on such
considerations as the Administrator considers appropriate (which may include the liquidity of the Referenced Funds to which the Account Values of such Participants are indexed).      (c)  Required Notional Reallocations . The Administrator shall determine the value of all distributions under the Plan. Prior to any distribution,
the Administrator may require a Participant to notionally reallocate a portion of the Account Value out of the Participant s current Notional Investments during the next notional reallocation period into other designated Notional Investment(s)
in order to ensure that the Participant s distribution payment(s) can be made in full and on time. The Administrator may notionally reallocate a Participant s Account Value to ensure that the Participant satisfies this Section 7(c).
        
   6   

(d)  No Withdrawals or Loans . Except for distributions made in accordance with the terms of the
Plan, a Participant shall have no rights to make withdrawals from, or to borrow against, the Participant s Account for any reason.       

8.   
    Termination and Amendment.          (a) The
Administrator may, at any time, terminate the Plan or any program under the Plan in whole or in part as to some or all Participants. No further Awards shall be granted to affected Participants after the effective date of any termination. Termination
of the Plan shall not result in early distributions to Participants, and distributions shall instead be made to Participants on the same schedule as if the Plan had not been terminated;  provided ,  however , that to the extent that early
distribution of all or a portion of a Participant s Account Value would not result in the imposition of interest or additional tax under Section 409A, the Administrator may require or permit such early distributions to the extent and in
the manner permitted under Section 409A.      (b) The Administrator may also alter, amend or modify the Plan, any program under the Plan
or any Award Certificate at any time in its sole discretion. These amendments may include (but are not limited to) changes that the Administrator considers necessary or advisable (i) as a result of changes in any, or the adoption or
interpretation of any new, Legal Requirement or (ii) to ensure that Morgan Stanley is not subject to registration or regulation as a  commodity pool  operator under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and the rules of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission promulgated thereunder, with respect to its operation of MSCIP or any program under MSCIP, and that neither MSCIP nor any program under MSCIP is treated as an  employee benefit plan  under ERISA.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Descriptive Materials, the Administrator may not amend or modify the Plan, any program under the Plan or any Award Certificate in a manner that would materially impair a Participant s rights, if
any, in the Participant s Account without the Participant s consent;  provided ,  however , that the Administrator may, without a Participant s consent, amend or modify the Plan, any program under the Plan or any Award
Certificate in any manner that the Administrator considers necessary or advisable to comply with any Legal Requirement or to ensure that neither the entirety nor any part of a Participant s Account Value is subject to United States federal,
state or local income tax or any equivalent taxes in territories outside the United States prior to payment or to any interest or penalty tax. To the extent necessary or advisable to comply with the Legal Requirements of any non-U.S. jurisdiction in
which the Firm implements the Plan, the Firm may supplement the Plan and/or any Award Certificate with an International Supplement.      (c)
The Administrator shall notify Participants of any termination of the Plan or any amendment of the Plan that is material, and shall notify affected Participants of any amendment that affects such Participants  rights, if any. Any amendment or
waiver of a provision of the Plan or any Award Certificate (other than any amendment or waiver applicable to all Participants generally), which amendment or waiver operates in a Participant s favor or confers a benefit on a Participant, must be
in writing and signed by the Global Director of Human Resources or the Chief Administrative Officer of Morgan Stanley (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective.         
   7   

9.   
    MSCIP Unfunded.          MSCIP is an unfunded
incentive plan. A Participant s Account represents at all times an unfunded, contingent and unsecured contractual obligation of Morgan Stanley. Each Participant and Beneficiary is an unsecured general creditor of Morgan Stanley with respect to
all obligations owed under the Plan. Amounts payable under the Plan shall be satisfied solely out of the general assets of Morgan Stanley, subject to the claims of its creditors. A Participant and a Participant s Beneficiaries will not have any
interest in any fund or in any specific asset of Morgan Stanley of any kind by reason of any amount credited to the Participant under the Plan, nor shall a Participant or any Beneficiary or any other person have any right to receive any distribution
under the Plan except as, and to the extent, expressly provided in this plan document or the Award Certificate. Morgan Stanley will not segregate any funds or assets to provide for the distribution of a Participant s Account Value or issue any
notes or securities for the payment thereof.       

10.   
    No Investment Obligation.          The Firm has no
obligation to invest amounts corresponding to a Participant s Awards or Account Value and/or any appreciation thereon (including, without limitation, in the Referenced Funds tracked by the Notional Investments to which a Participant s
Account is indexed). If the Firm invests amounts corresponding to Awards or Account Values in any Referenced Fund, such investment shall not confer on a Participant any right or interest in any such Referenced Fund. Participants will have no
ownership or other interest in any financial or other instrument or arrangement that Morgan Stanley may acquire or enter into to hedge its obligations under the Plan.       

11.   
    Taxes and Withholding; Other Obligations.          (a)  Taxes and Withholding . Any vesting, payment, distribution or award made under the Plan shall be subject to the Firm s withholding of all required United States federal, state and local and foreign income and
employment/payroll taxes, including without limitation Federal Insurance Contributions Act (   FICA   ) taxes (Social Security and Medicare), and all such payments, distributions, or awards shall be net of such tax withholding.
In addition to withholding such taxes from any payment, distribution, or award to which such taxes relate, subject to the immediately following sentence, Participants authorize the Firm to withhold such taxes from any payroll or other payment or
compensation to the Participant and to take such other action as the Firm may deem advisable to enable the Firm and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations, assessments, or other
governmental charges, whether of the United States or any other jurisdiction, relating to the vesting, payment, distribution, or award. However, the Firm may not deduct or withhold such sum from any payroll or other payment or compensation, except
to the extent it is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for  
       
   8   

United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of any amount hereunder or to incur interest or additional tax under
Section 409A. In the discretion of the Firm, the Firm may accelerate the payment of any amount under the Plan to the extent necessary to pay (i) any FICA taxes imposed on such amount prior to the scheduled payment thereof and (ii) any
income tax withholding imposed as a result of accelerated payment pursuant to the preceding clause (i).      (b)  Other Obligations . The
Firm shall have no authority to withhold any amount from a payment or distribution pursuant the Plan for the purpose of satisfying all or any part of an obligation that a Participant owes to the Firm, except (i) to the extent authorized under
Section 11(a) relating to tax and other withholding obligations or (ii) otherwise, to the extent such withholding is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Participant to recognize income for United States federal
income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of any amount hereunder or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.       

12.   
    Nontransferability.          A Participant may not
assign, sell, garnish, transfer, pledge or encumber the Participant s interests in the Plan, other than as provided in Section 13 (which allows a Participant to designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in the event of the
Participant s death) or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This prohibition includes any assignment or other transfer that purports to occur by operation of law or otherwise. During a Participant s lifetime, payments shall be
made only to the Participant. The terms and conditions of the Plan are binding on, and shall benefit, Morgan Stanley and its successors and assigns, and the Participants, their Beneficiaries, heirs, legatees and personal representatives.   

13.   
    Designation of a Beneficiary.          A Participant
may designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries to receive all or part of the Participant s MSCIP payments to be paid under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death. To designate a Beneficiary, a Participant must complete and submit a
designation of beneficiary form with the Executive Compensation Department pursuant to procedures the Administrator may establish from time to time. A Participant may revoke or change the Participant s designation at any time.       
    The Administrator may
establish procedures from time to time pursuant to which the Administrator will process claims by Participants with respect to the Plan.       

15.   
    No Right to Continued Employment or Participation.          Neither the Plan nor any interpretation, determination or other action taken or omitted to be taken pursuant to the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing a Participant s employment with the Firm, a discretionary bonus or any
particular level of bonus, compensation or benefits or as giving a Participant any right to continued  
       
   9   

employment, during any period, nor shall they be construed as giving a Participant any right to be reemployed by the Firm following any termination of
employment. In addition, neither the Plan nor any interpretation, determination or other action taken or omitted to be taken pursuant to the Plan shall be deemed to create or confer on a Participant any right to participate in MSCIP, or in any
similar program that may be established by the Firm, in respect of any Fiscal Year or other period.       
    In the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the MSCIP plan document and any Award Certificate or any of the Descriptive Materials, the plan document shall govern and the Award Certificate and any Descriptive Materials shall be interpreted to minimize or eliminate any
such conflict or inconsistency;  provided ,  however , that to the extent the Administrator amends or modifies any term or definition set forth herein in accordance with Section 19, such modified term or definition will be
communicated to the Participant in the applicable Award Certificate and shall govern; and,  provided ,  further , that to the extent the Administrator amends or modifies any term or definition set forth herein in accordance with
Section 8(b) to comply with the Legal Requirements of any non-U.S. jurisdiction in which the Firm implements the Plan, such modified term or definition will be communicated to the Participant in the applicable International Supplement and shall
govern.       

17.   
    Governing Law and Exclusive Jurisdiction.          MSCIP and the related legal relations between a Participant and the Firm shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that
might otherwise refer the interpretation of the Award or Account Value to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Following the timely and proper exhaustion of applicable internal claims and appeals procedures, the courts of New York shall have
exclusive jurisdiction over the Plan and any dispute arising in connection with the Plan, a Participant s participation in the Plan or rights under the Plan.       
    The headings in this plan
document have been inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be ignored in any construction of MSCIP. Use of one gender includes the other, and the singular and plural include each other.       
    Unless determined otherwise
by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings:      (a)
   Account    means the bookkeeping account maintained on the books and records of Morgan Stanley in a Participant s name to record Awards and credits or debits thereto in accordance with the Plan. An Account is established
only for purposes of tracking Notional Investments and not to segregate assets or to identify assets that may be used to make payments under the Plan.         
   10   

(b)    Account Value    means the amount reflected on the books and records of Morgan
Stanley as the value of a Participant s Account at any date of determination, as determined in accordance with the Plan.      (c)
   Award    means the initial value of an incentive award granted to a Participant under the Plan.      (d)
   Award Certificate    means a written or electronic document which, for each specified Award and related Account Value, sets forth those terms and conditions of the Plan that, pursuant to the terms of this plan document, are to
be communicated in an Award Certificate, including terms and definitions that are not otherwise set forth herein or that the Administrator has determined to modify from those set forth herein. With respect to Participants employed outside the United
States, references in this Plan to an Award Certificate shall include the International Supplement.      (e)
   Beneficiary    means the person designated by a Participant pursuant to Section 13 to receive any payments under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death.      (f)    Compensation Committee    means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of
Morgan Stanley.      (g)    Descriptive Materials    means any term sheets, brochures or other materials relating to MSCIP,
whether in written or electronic form, that are distributed to or made available to Eligible Employees.      (h)    Eligible
Employees    means employees of the Firm whom the Administrator determines pursuant to Section 3 to be eligible for an Award under the Plan.      (i)    ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.      (j)    Executive Compensation Department    means Morgan Stanley s Executive Compensation Department or any other department of Morgan Stanley that succeeds to the functions of the Executive
Compensation Department.      (k) The    Firm    means Morgan Stanley (including any successor thereto), together with its
subsidiaries and other affiliates.      (l)    Fiscal Year    means a fiscal year of Morgan Stanley.      (m)    International Supplement    means a written or electronic document that amends, deletes or supplements the terms and
conditions of the Plan or an  
       
   11   

Award Certificate with respect to Participants employed outside the United States. With respect to Participants employed outside the United States,
references in this Plan to an Award Certificate shall include the International Supplement.      (n)    Legal
Requirement    means any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement.      (o)    Notional Investments    means the Referenced Funds or other investment vehicles used to measure the return (positive or negative) to be attributed to Awards. For the avoidance of doubt, a
Participant s interest in any Notional Investment shall be notional.      (p)    Participant    means an Eligible
Employee who receives an Award under the Plan.      (q)    Referenced Fund    means the fund(s) or other investment
vehicle(s) to which a Notional Investment relates.      (r)    Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor provisions thereto).      (s)
   Top Hat Plan    means a plan, including a program under MSCIP, that is intended to qualify as a plan maintained for a select group of highly compensated or management employees within the meaning of ERISA.         
   12   

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 8
 dex1055.htm
 FORM OF EXECUTIVE WAIVER

Form of Executive Waiver 

EXHIBIT 10.55        WAIVER       In consideration for the benefits I will receive as a result of my employer s participation in the
United States Department of the Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program, I hereby voluntarily waive any claim against the United States or my employer for any changes to my compensation or benefits that are required to comply with the
regulation issued by the Department of the Treasury as published in the Federal Register on October 20, 2008.      I acknowledge that this regulation may
require modification of the compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans, arrangements, policies and agreements (including so-called  golden parachute  agreements) that I have with my employer or in which I participate as they
relate to the period the United States holds any equity or debt securities of my employer acquired through the TARP Capital Purchase Program.      This waiver
includes all claims I may have under the laws of the United States or any state related to the requirements imposed by the aforementioned regulation, including without limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments I would otherwise
receive, any challenge to the process by which this regulation was adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of these regulations on my employment relationship.   

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.56>
 9
 dex1056.htm
 FORM OF EXECUTIVE LETTER AGREEMENT

Form of Executive Letter Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10.56       October 24, 2008      Morgan Stanley      1585 Broadway
     New York, NY 10036      To Whom This May Concern      In consideration for the benefits I will receive as a result of the participation of Morgan Stanley (together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, the
  Company  ) in the United States Department of the Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program and any other economic stabilization program implemented by the Department of the Treasury under the Emergency Economic Stabilization
Act of 2008 (the   Act  ) either prior to or subsequent to the date of this letter from me (any such program, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program, an   EESA Program  ), I hereby voluntarily waive any claim
against any of the Company, the Company s Board of Directors, any individual member of the Company s Board of Directors and the Company s officers, employees, representatives and agents for any changes to my compensation or benefits
that are required to comply with the regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury in connection with an EESA Program.      I acknowledge that the
aforementioned regulations may require modification of the compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans, arrangements, policies and agreements (including so-called  golden parachute  agreements), whether or not in writing, that I
may have with the Company or in which I may participate as they relate to the period the United States holds any equity or debt securities of the Company acquired through an EESA Program, including without limitation the TARP Capital Purchase
Program, or for any other period applicable under such EESA Program.      This waiver includes all claims I may have under the laws of the United States or any
state related to the requirements imposed by the aforementioned regulations, including without limitation a claim for any compensation or other payments or benefits I would otherwise receive, any challenge to the process by which the aforementioned
regulations are or were adopted and any tort or constitutional claim about the effect of these regulations on my employment relationship.      I agree that, in
the event and to the extent Morgan Stanley s Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee (the   Committee  ) reasonably determines that any compensatory payment and benefit provided to me, including any bonus or
incentive compensation based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance criteria, would cause the Company to fail to be in compliance with the terms and conditions of any EESA Program in which the Company is a participant (such
payment or benefit, an   Excess Payment  ), upon notification from the Company, I shall promptly repay such Excess Payment to the Company. In addition, I agree that the Company shall have the right to postpone any such payment or
benefit for a reasonable period of time to enable the Committee to determine whether such payment or benefit would constitute an Excess Payment.   

I understand that any determination by the Committee as to whether or not, including the manner in which, a payment or
benefit needs to be modified, terminated or repaid in order for the Company to be in compliance with Section 111 of the Act and/or the aforementioned regulations shall be final, conclusive and binding. I further understand that the Company is
relying on this letter from me in connection with its participation in any EESA Program, including without limitation the TARP Capital Purchase Program.      Very truly yours,         
   2   

</EX-10.56>

<EX-12>
 10
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12          
   Morgan Stanley        Ratio of Earnings
to Fixed Charges        and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends        (dollars in millions)          

(1)  
  Certain prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.     

(2)  
  Income before income taxes does not include dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, gain (loss) on discontinued operations, and cumulative effect of
accounting change (net).           

Fixed charges  consist of interest cost, including interest on deposit, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, and that portion of rent
expense estimated to be representative of the interest factor.           

The preferred stock dividend amounts represent pre-tax earnings required to cover dividends on preferred stock.     

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 11
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF MORGAN STANLEY

Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley 

Exhibit 21        MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008         

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
     Morgan Stanley    
      
  Delaware   
 
    Arara LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayview Holding Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine DE Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Belmondo LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cauca LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Corporate Equipment Supplies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Alliance Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Holding Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Civic Center Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lewiston Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Fourth Income Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Growth Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Realty Management Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Venture Equities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Demeter Management Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Early Adopter Fund Manager Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fuegos LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    FV-I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Global Special Situations III Funding L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hudson Resources, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ISG Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Core Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jolter Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Karakoram LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Merope LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Electra Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Maia Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Millport Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Millport I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Holdings Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 1 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Littlehill (US) LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ravelston LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Rundle Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MR Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DigitalGlobe, Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DigitalGlobe Asia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EarthWatch Mississippi Operations Incorporated   
      
  Mississippi   
 
    GlobeXplorer LLC   
      
  California   
 
    AirPhotoUSA, L.L.C.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Ohio) Inc.   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Oklahoma) Inc.   
      
  Oklahoma   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Texas) Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services, Inc. (Puerto Rico)   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Design Enterprises Limited   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    Graystone Wealth Management Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Luxco 45 Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Insurance Services (Arizona) Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Insurance Services (Arkansas) Inc.   
      
  Arkansas   
 
    Morgan Stanley Insurance Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Flexible Agreements Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kew Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Management Services II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Securities Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Prime Dealer Services Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TVN Entertainment Corp.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music (Holdings) Limited*   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Holdings (USA), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Entertainment Group Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musiteca Music Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Protel Records Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Revolu Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Soundmex Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    E Musica Records LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Publishing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Kubaney Acquisition, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gee Street Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Records (Canada) Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    V2 Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Music Publishing France S rl   
      
  France   
 
    V2 Music Publishing Holdings (USA) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gee Street Sounds, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    In Bed Music, Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Realization Music Ltd.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tunes of V2 America   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Songs of V2 America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Music of V2 America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Music Publishing Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
       
   Page 2 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    V2 Publishing (Italy) S.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    V2 Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Altabridge Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amalthea UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amanu LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Makatea JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Moorea Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pinaki Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Raraka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tepoto Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Becketts LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Copse LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chapel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Woodcote Capital S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerrards Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Energy Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foxton Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sandpiper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sand Lake Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Starling Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asti Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Piedmont Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cuneo Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Atlas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barrents LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biscay LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alpha Investments LLP *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Epsilon Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plymouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Viking LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fastnet LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fitzroy Partnership *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kite LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Firecrest LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plover Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Puffin LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Boscastle Holding Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornerways Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Monmouth UK *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cayman Energy Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Ghent Energy Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Heidmar Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GT Energy Corporation   
      
  Texas   
 
    Houston Marine Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
       
   Page 3 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Heidmar Inc. *   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Canterbury Tankers LLC *   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Darien Tankers Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar International Pools Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Dorado Tankers Pool Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Marida Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Sigma Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Star Tankers Inc.   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Investments LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Euro LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Force Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Marine (Far East) LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar (Far East) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Heidmar UK Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Protank Shipping Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Lightering Holdings Inc.   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Heidmar Trading LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidenreich Marine Caracas, C.A. *   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Norwalk Tankers Inc.*   
      
  Liberia   
 
    Q88.Com LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    QFleet Com LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Unicorn-Heidmar Tankers LLC   
      
  Marshall Islands   
 
    Heidmar Intermediate Holdings Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Espa a), S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clean Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clean Development Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Development I (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Current Resources (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Current Resources Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Energy Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Cyprus Limited *   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Morgan Stanley Petroleum Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Power Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cogeneracion Prat S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Minnewit B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Coal Trading Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LC Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar Solutions Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Energy LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Terminal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Twillwer B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Power Contract Finance, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Electric Development Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Generating Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Product Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Transport Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Coastal Tug and Barge, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 4 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Utility Contract Funding II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Management, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Iowa   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Minnesota   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Pennsylvania   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Tennessee   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    NOVUS Financial Corporation of Washington   
      
  Washington   
 
    NOVUS Receivables Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Advance Receivables Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Baltic Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caspian Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Avondale 1 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Avondale 2 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Mortgage Capital, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Content Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Darica Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ascension Loan Vehicle, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter International Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter International Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds International, Inc.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds (Lugano) S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    River View International Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Distributors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durango LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Afdera Cayman Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amba Alagi LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ambasel LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Semaine Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Ras Dashen Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cimarron Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Riva Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pez Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Always Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Inter Capital Alliance Company Limited *   
      
  Thailand   
       
   Page 5 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MS China 1 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    DAH Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Dare Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 2 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 3 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 4 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 5 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSGHYLADD *   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSJI 2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSJI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philippine Asset Investment (SPV - AMC) Inc.   
      
  The Philippines   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europa LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Callisto Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elara Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eurydome Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Holdings S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europe Reinsurance S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Reinsurance S.A. *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley White Horse UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Metis (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ganymede Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ananke Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Carme Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Himalia Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sinope Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Adrastea Netherlands B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley IO Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Iocaste Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pasiphae Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leda Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stoneyside Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services USA LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Galway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Funding Trust   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley GWM Feeder Strategies Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Premier GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Home Loans Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Holdings Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Acheron Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Arigil Menkul Degerler A.S. *   
      
  Turkey   
       
   Page 6 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Arno Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    European Principal Assets Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    City Mortgage Bank LLC   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Credito Fondario e Industriale - Fonspa SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Primass - Promozioni e Assistenza Immobiliari - SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Psylon Holding Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Limited Liability Company Rinocenter   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Volmar Holdings Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    HTI Valori Mobiliare S.A. *   
      
  Romania   
 
    ITALSEC S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Lethe Ltd. *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley Advantage Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings IV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings VI Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific (Holdings) Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) III LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) IV Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Company   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Labuan Investment Bank Limited   
      
  Labuan/Malaysia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hong Kong) Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1238 Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Securities Products LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Taiwan) Ltd.   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Futures Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Securities Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Consultancy (Beijing) Company    
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1239 Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Information Technology (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bosphorus Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canmore Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brook Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Batherm Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ursa SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hercules SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lyra SARL*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Temple Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
       
   Page 7 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Clyst Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Creedy Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brunton Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Putney Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lowman Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mildenhall S.A.R.L. *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Byzantine S.A.R.L.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rosetta Investments S.A.R.L.*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finchley Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rasam Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vindolanda Equity S.A.R.L.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caledonia Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ouse Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Adur Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cuckmere Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leitrim Sarl *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kerry Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Richmond Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan (Holdings) Ltd. *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    City Forum Capital Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Hybrid Capital Second K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Holdings Co., Ltd. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    Hybrid Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    TM, Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Jipang Mortgage Finance Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tokyo Properties K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset   Investment Trust Management Co., Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Business Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital K.K. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    K.K. MST Investment Management *   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Real Estate Advisors Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Panorama Hospitality, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Japan Group, Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings II Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Capital Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Remora Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJL Holdings 4682 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJL Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS CYM Preferred Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJS Preferred YK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSDW Birkdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Muirfield Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Lytham Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Haddeo Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ock Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barle Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Weaver Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadland III Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 8 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Knightsbridge Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Oostburg B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Oostburg   Partners Secs*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Ramey Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Swilken Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Management S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Finance Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Real Estate Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Servco Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Real Estate Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital S.A. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital (Luxembourg) S.A. *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cayman Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Hong Kong Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading (China) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Thailand) Limited *   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Morgan Stanley San Donato SARL *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah Two Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Donegan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Donau GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Neckar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Nominees Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hungary Analytics Kft.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding II Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Group (Europe) *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Advantage Home Loans Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bayfine UK Products *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Angel Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bramley Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Europe) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance plc *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caballa Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gastoro Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintado Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Woburn IV Cooperatieve UA *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn V Cooperatieve UA *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Corporate Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments I Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments II Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Sunningdale Cooperatieve UA *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn Cooperatieve UA *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wentworth Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gala Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
       
   Page 9 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (ACD) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investments (UK)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley JY Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley JY Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Laxton *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Property Management (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Funding Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Structured Products) Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Group   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barbera Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bondola Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kadarka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bridel S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Strategic Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Lyle Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dover Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elz GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Saar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Denmark) ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fisher Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Ashwood Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn VI Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (France) SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Havel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dill GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Main GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Isar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Spree GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mosel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elbe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humboldt Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Marco Polo High Yield Financing srl *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Clearcreek, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Inn GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wupper GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kochi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Kerala Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clare SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cork Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malabar Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hoxne Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shannon Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Camomile Liffey Investments (UK) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brighton Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 10 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Shoreditch Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Newburg Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mandarin Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Harlequin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Metsys Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintail Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bonaire Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Tamboer Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Orangewood Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saenredam Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saldanha Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Neudorf S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Piccadilly Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rhein SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clausen Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eich Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rivelino Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dolor Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerson Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tostao Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Denilson Company Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Zico Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Silvermere Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bowline Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Penberthy Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Archimedes Investments Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Hanger Straight Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa I Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa II Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa III Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa IV Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shanklin Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Northcote Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Borderwijk Cooperatieve U.A. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Norton Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bermont Co-operatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Shavano Cooperatieve UA *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hampstead Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Yarmouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Monte Bianco Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Monte Cervino Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Victoria Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Waterloo Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Moor Lane Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Propus Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    MSDW Portrush Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Turnberry Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Medway Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Jubilee Investments Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Augusta Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
       
   Page 11 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MSDW Eden Investments Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Mallard Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Carysforth Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Haddington Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Millbrae Investments B.V.*   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Montgomerie Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Charbono Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fiano Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tannat Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Portland Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Wadway 1 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wadway 2 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn III Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Raleigh Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Langtree Investments B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Drake Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Drake II Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Livingstone Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    East Sussex Financing Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Cottenden Financing Unlimited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust IX   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities ACD Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morstan Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Somerset Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trustee Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wertpapiere GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    OOO Morgan Stanley Bank   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    MS Leasing UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (C.I.) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Willow Capital Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Korea) Limited   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investments (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Latin America Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Banco Morgan Stanley Dean Witter S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Administadora de Carteiras S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Corretora de T tulos e Valores Mobili rios S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter do Brasil Ltda. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Uruguay Ltda. *   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    MSLA Advisors Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Capital Private Limited *   
      
  India   
       
   Page 12 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) II LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Securities Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    MSIM Global Support and Technology Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Middle East Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Servicing Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Prime Commercial Mortgage Servicing GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Newport S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Poggio Secco Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Alpino Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Management Korea, Ltd.   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley SGR (Societ  di Gestione del Risparmio) SpA *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley South Africa (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Spanish Holdings S.L.U.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Espa a), S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley SV, SAU   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swiss Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Bank Morgan Stanley AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Fosbury Investments Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trading Beteiligungs-GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai II (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Finance (Netherlands) BV   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Equity Financing Services (Luxembourg) S. .r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MS Italy (Holdings) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSL Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV I (Cayman Islands) LLC *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Farlington Company *   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Providence DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Canada Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Providence Cayman Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence DE Investments Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Asia Indonesia *   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Indonesia *   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Limited Liability Company  Sophia Capital  *   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Incorporated *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings V Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Securities Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities (Nominee) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Holdings *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Financial Holdings, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Finance Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter UK Capital Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
       
   Page 13 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter HK RAV IV, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The HK RAV IV Trust *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    The HK RAV IV Partnership *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The HK RAV V Partnership *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Finance S.A. *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Insurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSIIL Captive Insurance, Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley Offshore Investment Company Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Select Investment Strategies Ltd. *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley SerCo Solutions Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV II (Cayman Islands) LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Cabot 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Cabot Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (US) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Trader *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Financial Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trader *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Weser GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Russet LLP *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Investments (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 1 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Applied Risc Technologies Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cornwall Financing UK Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornwall Investments UK Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Holdings Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Hampshire Trading B.V. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Lancashire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Norfolk Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Suffolk Trading B.V. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wiltshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Yorkshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cumbria Investments *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Malta) Limited *   
      
  Malta   
 
    Morgan Stanley Maple Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tipperary Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durham Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Berkshire Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cheshire Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Devon Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Langton Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alzette S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Holdings (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (DIFC) Limited   
      
  DIFC   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grund S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Euro Financing (Ireland) Limited *   
      
  Ireland   
       
   Page 14 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley (NSW) Pty Limited   
      
  Victoria, Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Moselle S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Warta GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wiltz S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lincoln Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Longcross Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP (Cayman) GP Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP GP LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investment Partners LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Comprehensive Alternatives Fund I LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kristinestad LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Fund II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Advisory (Beijing) Limited   
      
  Beijing, PRC   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Life Holding Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Longevity Insurance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Limpopo LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Breede Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lomati LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tugela Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vaal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clova Investments LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malbec LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Martin LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley ML Acquisition Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC   
      
  New York   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asset Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSMC 2006-FM-1, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSSHG I Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Saxon Capital, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Residential Mortgage Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Capital Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SCI Services, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Mortgage, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Holding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TRS Securities and Certificates, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
       
   Page 15 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Saxon Funding Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitized Assets LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Asset Securities Company   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Finance Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Services (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Preferred Strategies Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hungary) Financial Services Limited *   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSXL Asia Pacific Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSXL China Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    SPV Columbus S.r.L. *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Strategies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Multifamily Investment Platform, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA LL Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F International Funding, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, L.P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Moon Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Moon Acquisition Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Moon Acquisition LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF I, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF I-CO, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II-CO, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Realty Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brooks Harvey   Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Global Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Realty Finance Company   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Japan Realty Finance Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lombard Servicing Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital (Real Estate) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Corso Venezia S.r.l. *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Germany GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Ltd. *   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    MSK Management II, Ltd. *   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (Mauritius) India   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties India Real Estate Management Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    MSP China Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Advisory Corp. Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 16 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Beijing Kaili Asset Servicing Co., Ltd. *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (China) Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    MSDI Investment Services *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Global, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Japan REIT Holding KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Japan Strategic Core Acquisition KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Tokyo Realty Investment Company   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Tokyo Realty Investment Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Reinsurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biomass LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrighSource LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Geothermal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenrock LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Carson Solar I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewable Development Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS SolarCity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California VI LLC   
      
    Delaware    
 
    Solar Star California IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star WMT I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wind LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Risk Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SECAP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Equity Products (Luxembourg) S. .r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitization Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Inversiones Sudamerica Uno Ltda *   
      
  Republic of Chile   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Event Driven Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Leveraged Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Transaction Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley MSSF LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Capital), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Nova Scotia) Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSSFG (SPV-AMC) Inc *   
      
  The Philippines   
 
    Tenedora Dalia, S. de R.L. de C.V. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Canada Holding Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Canada Corp.   
      
  Nova Scotia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Special Situations Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stingray LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Structured Products (Cayman) I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barbera One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Three Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 17 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services MB/VC Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tindur LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Arete Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hubbard Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Drumlin JV Inc.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Immarsuak LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hatteras I LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hatteras II LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pennine LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Scafell Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Snowdon Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hamar JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Torridon LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tower, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Broadway 522 Fifth JV LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital II B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley 750 Building Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley CS Aviation Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Delta LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW LTCP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Harrison LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trust   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trust National Association   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morstan Development Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS 10020, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CFN, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Debt Opportunities Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Hawk I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Holdings Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS FIHF GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS GMEMN GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ARS Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Macro Fund GP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners Cayman Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley HFP Investment Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley IMDCP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Offshore Infrastructure GP, Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 18 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MSPEA SLP III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Securities Global Best Ideas GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding D Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding E Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding A Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding B Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Partners Adviser, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Fixed Income Group Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSCP V GP, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Partners V GP LP *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSGFI Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TAM Investment Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Partners LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brookville Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brookville Onshore Horizons Fund I GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FPP Healthcare Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Asia Pacific GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint BCO GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Consumer and Industrials Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Copia Energy Horizons Fund GP, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Alpha Fund I GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Index Fund U.S. Equity Series GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint European Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Services Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Global Emerging Markets Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Greater China Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Centennial Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Long Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Small/Mid Cap Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint JEMN GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Leveraged Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management (Hong Kong), Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management (UK) LLP   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Management Services, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Quantitative Macro Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint RCL Equity Long/Short Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Relative Value Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 19 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) No 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Strategic Alpha Manager, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Strategic Credit Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Technology Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Universal GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Utility and Energy Fund GP, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Volatility Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Stadia Capital GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Kasko LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    North European Funding LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lion LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Beta Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bucine Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cooper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Levin Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gamma Investments *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swallow Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Leopard Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lynx Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Puma JV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Tiger Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Oncilla LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Conchito I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esox LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Guannaco I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mombacho I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XVI, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XXIII, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XXII, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Georgia Tax Credit Fund III, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley New Markets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH MHP II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH SLP Operating LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH Special General Partner II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund I LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund II LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Paquia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 20 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Pietra I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BMC NAB Trust Investment Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    HIGC Investment Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing II Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kashi LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG INT LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Taishan Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 1A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 2A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 3A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 4A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 5A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 6A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 7A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 8A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 9A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 21 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MS Low Income Housing III Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool SLP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Pegau LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Beaucastel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rhone Robles LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SNQ Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Real Estate Mezzanine Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Revel EFS LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    D Z Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Structured Asset Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Synfuels, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Rosebank LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strand Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Cornelia Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Clifton Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lindley Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Linksfield Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Seapoint Investments (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    MS Douglasdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bondi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Melville LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Dainfern LLC*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenside LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Houghton LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sandhurst Partnership *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Sandhurst FX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Prosen Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Toolio Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Technology Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Venture Capital Holding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSAM Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Asset Management   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Exchange Corp.   
      
  California   
 
    Van Kampen Funds Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investor Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSBF Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSCI Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Barra, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Barra International Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BarraConsult Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Barra International (Australia) Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Investment Performance Objects Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Barra Japan Co., Ltd   
      
  Japan   
 
    Financial Engineering Associates, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    MSCI Barra Financial Information Consultancy (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    MSCI Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    MSCI Barra SA   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MSCI Kft.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSCI Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
       
   Page 22 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MSCI S. de R.L. de C.V. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    MSCI Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    MSCP III Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Proprietary Trading Co. (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Capital Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Capital Trust I   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Carnoustie LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bembridge Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sandown Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Gleneagles Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Marchmont Capital, Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW CPIV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Credit Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Products Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW EFS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Emerging Equity, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 11 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Asia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 6 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 7 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 8 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSPI Mauritius 1 Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Europe LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments North America LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 9 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 10 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 12 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSPI Hong Kong I Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrokerTec Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Eaux Vives Water Bottling Corp. *   
      
  Canada   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bahamas Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW International Employee Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Nederland B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Oak, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple JV, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sycamore II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elder, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Birch (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Offshore Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Deshka LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barnard LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chandra LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Karluk LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Keck LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mayall LLC   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 23 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    Morgan Stanley Eemian Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Aral Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings II (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Proprietary Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedging Co. Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Bayport Holdings Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Luxembourg) Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Trading (Jersey) LP *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MORGAN STANLEY DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS (PORTUGAL), UNIPESSOAL LDA   
      
  Portugal   
 
    MSDW Equity Finance Services I (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Equity Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Offshore Equity Services (Korea) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW OIP Investors, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW PE/VC Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley MBD Conduit Account, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-A Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-B Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-C Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Holdings, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-A Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-B Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-C Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Partner, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Strategic Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Synfuels III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Venture Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW VP IV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF Manager SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSGEM Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSIT Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSPEA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Guaranty, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine-GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, L.L.C. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 24 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International Funding, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSLOF I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSLOF I, L.L.C. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSLOF I-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (Cayman), L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (Cayman), Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP Holding (Cayman), L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (Cayman), L.P.*   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP (Cayman), L.P.*   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global, L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global, L.P. *   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP, L.P.*   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSREF VII Global-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (U.S.), L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP (U.S.), L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREI Post Co-Investment GP, L.L.C. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Opportunities Fund - GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS SP Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002 Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002 Fund, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSYS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pettingell LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
       
   Page 25 of 26 Pages   

MORGAN STANLEY         Subsidiary List          November 30, 2008           

Company           *Has one or more minority shareholders.    
      
     Jurisdiction of       Incorporation       or
Formation     
 
    PG Holdings III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pierpont Power, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Pinol I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence DE Funding Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence DE Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence International Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence Valley Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence DE Holdings Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Reynolds Securities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Shuksan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eder S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Serratus LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Strategic Investments I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Strategic (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Strategic Investments II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tooele Power, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS PA Gaming Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura Holdings NJ, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura AC LLC   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Ventura Opportunities, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Zephyr (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
       
   Page 26 of 26 Pages   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 12
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP 

EXHIBIT 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
following Registration Statements (as amended) of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) of our reports dated January 28, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Morgan Stanley and the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting (which reports on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule express an unqualified opinion and include an explanatory paragraph, concerning
the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement  and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  and, an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)  and, an explanatory paragraph, concerning the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 109 ), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008:      Filed on Form S-3:      Registration Statement No. 33-57202      Registration Statement No. 33-60734      Registration Statement No. 33-89748      Registration Statement No. 33-92172      Registration Statement No. 333-07947      Registration Statement No. 333-27881      Registration Statement No. 333-27893      Registration Statement No. 333-27919      Registration Statement No. 333-46403      Registration Statement No. 333-46935      Registration Statement No. 333-76111      Registration Statement No. 333-75289      Registration Statement No. 333-34392      Registration Statement No. 333-47576      Registration Statement No. 333-83616      Registration Statement No. 333-106789      Registration Statement No. 333-117752      Registration Statement No. 333-129243      Registration Statement No. 333-131266      Registration Statement No. 333-155622      Registration Statement No. 333-156423      Filed on Form S-4:      Registration Statement No. 333-25003      Filed on Form S-8:      Registration Statement No. 33-63024      Registration Statement No. 33-63026      Registration Statement No. 33-78038      Registration Statement No. 33-79516      Registration Statement No. 33-82240      Registration Statement No. 33-82242      Registration Statement No. 33-82244      Registration Statement No. 333-04212      Registration Statement No. 333-28141   

Registration Statement No. 333-28263      Registration Statement No. 333-62869      Registration Statement No. 333-78081      Registration Statement No. 333-95303      Registration Statement No. 333-85148      Registration Statement No. 333-85150      Registration Statement No. 333-108223      Registration Statement No. 333-142874      Registration Statement No. 333-146954       

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1       Certification      I, John J. Mack, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: January 28, 2009       

/s/    J OHN  J. M ACK            
 
   John J. Mack    
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2       Certification      I, Colm Kelleher, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present
in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and      d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
     a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: January 28, 2009       

/ S /    C OLM 
K ELLEHER            
 
   Colm Kelleher    
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John J. Mack, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        

/ S /    J OHN  J.
M ACK            
 
   John J. Mack    
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Dated: January 28, 2009   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 16
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Colm Kelleher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        

/ S /    C OLM 
K ELLEHER            
 
   Colm Kelleher    
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
   Dated: January 28, 2009   

</EX-32.2>

