<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160223_10-K_edgar_data_895421_0001193125-16-473553_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>51794368</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1677292</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2555360</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>16414190</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>23782438</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5711444</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>558</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-16-473553.hdr.sgml : 20160223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160223161359
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-16-473553
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		190
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		161448494

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-761-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980326

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-16-473553.txt : 20160223

10-K
 1
 d48186d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

   UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
  Washington, D.C. 20549      FORM 10-K      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934       For the year ended December 31, 2015    
  Commission File Number 1-11758       

(Exact name of Registrant
as specified in its charter)         

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class   
      
  Name of exchange on     which registered   

Common Stock, $0.01 par value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series A, $0.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series E, $0.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series F, $0.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,
$0.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series I, $0.01 par value   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    6   1   /   4   % Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III (and Registrant s guarantee with respect
thereto)    
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6   1   /   4   % Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV (and Registrant s guarantee with respect
thereto)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  5   3   /   4   % Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V (and Registrant s guarantee with respect
thereto)   
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.45% Capital Securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto)  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Global Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Fixed Rate Step-Up Senior Notes Due 2026 of Morgan Stanley Finance LLC (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto)  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Market Vectors ETNs due March 31, 2020 (2 issuances); Market Vectors ETNs due April 30, 2020 (2 issuances)  
      
  NYSE Arca, Inc.   
 
  Morgan Stanley Cushing    MLP High Income Index ETNs due March 21, 2031  
      
  NYSE Arca, Inc.   
          Indicate by check mark if
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES     NO       
        Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES     NO       
        Indicate by check mark whether Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO             
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES
    NO             
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
            
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large Accelerated Filer         Non-Accelerated Filer         (Do not check if
a smaller reporting company)   
     
    Accelerated Filer         Smaller reporting company        
          Indicate by check mark
whether Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES     NO                As of June 30, 2015, the aggregate market value of the common stock of Registrant held by non-affiliates
of Registrant was approximately $72,777,054,630. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.         
  As of January 31, 2016, there were 1,958,568,849 shares of Registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.   
         Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Portions of
Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2016 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM
10-K       for the year ended December 31, 2015    

Table of Contents  

Page  

Part I    

Item 1.   
     
   Business   

1  

Overview    

1  

Business Segments    

1  

Competition    

1  

Supervision and Regulation    

2  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley    

11  

Item 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   

13  

Item 1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

23  

Item 2.   
     
   Properties   

23  

Item 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   

24  

Item 4.   
     
   Mine Safety Disclosures   

32  

Part II    

Item 5.   
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

33  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

36  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

38  

Introduction    

38  

Executive Summary    

39  

Business Segments    

46  

Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures    

67  

Accounting Developments Updates    

70  

Critical Accounting Policies    

71  

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

75  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

98  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

121  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

121  

Consolidated Statements of Income    

122  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    

123  

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    

124  

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity    

125  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

126  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

127  

1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation    

127  

2. Significant Accounting Policies    

129  

3. Fair Values    

141  

4. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities    

167  

5. Investment Securities    

176  

6. Collateralized Transactions    

181  

7. Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    

185  

8. Equity Method Investments    

191  

9. Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets    

191  

10. Deposits    

193  

11. Borrowings and Other Secured Financings    

194  

i  

Table of Contents  

ii  

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements             We have included in or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public
filings, press releases or other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical
facts and represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.         
  The nature of our business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and
uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements, and it is possible that our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without limitation):         

the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events;      

sovereign risk;      

the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and
mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets and energy markets;      

the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
 Dodd-Frank Act )), regulation (including capital, leverage, funding and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the United States of America ( U.S. ) and
worldwide;      

the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market
indices;      

the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt;

investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;      

the performance and results of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements;

our reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry;      

inflation, natural disasters, pandemics and acts of war or terrorism;      

the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations;

the effectiveness of our risk management policies;      

technological changes instituted by us, our competitors or counterparties and technological risks, including cybersecurity, business continuity and
related operational risks;      

our ability to provide innovative products and services and execute our strategic objectives; and      

other risks and uncertainties detailed under  Business Competition  and  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part
I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere throughout this report.            
  Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they
are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further disclosures we may make in future filings of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments
thereto or in future press releases or other public statements.   

iii  

Table of Contents  

    Available Information.             The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You may read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for
information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with
the SEC. The Company s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC s internet site,  www.sec.gov.           
  The Company s internet site is  www.morganstanley.com . You can access the Company s Investor Relations webpage at
 www.morganstanley.com/about-us-ir . The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
 Form 10-Q,  Current Reports on  Form 8-K  and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC s internet
site, statements of beneficial ownership of the Company s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.   
        You can access information about the Company s corporate
governance at  www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance.  The Company s Corporate Governance webpage includes:   

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;      

Amended and Restated Bylaws;      

Charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, Operations and
Technology Committee, and Risk Committee;      

Corporate Governance Policies;      

Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;      

Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;      

Policy Regarding Corporate Political Activities;      

Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;      

Equity Ownership Commitment;      

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;      

Code of Conduct; and      

Integrity Hotline information.            
  Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. The Company will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York
Stock Exchange LLC ( NYSE ) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on the
Company s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.   

iv  

Table of Contents  

      Part I    

Item 1.   
     Business.             
     Overview.          
  Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages
and distributes capital for, governments, institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. The Company is a financial holding
company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in
and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 56,218 employees worldwide. Unless
the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley,  the  Company,   we,   us  and  our  mean Morgan Stanley together with its consolidated subsidiaries.   
        Financial information concerning the Company, its business
segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2015 ( 2015 ), December 31, 2014 ( 2014 ) and December 31, 2013 ( 2013 ) is included in the consolidated financial statements
and the notes thereto in  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in Part II, Item 8.               Business Segments.             The Company is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management.
Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, the Company provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Additional
information related to the Company s business segments, respective clients, and products and services provided is included under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II,
Item 7.               Competition.
            All aspects of the Company s businesses
are highly competitive, and the Company expects them to remain so. The Company competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other
things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive. The Company s competitive position depends on its reputation and
the quality and consistency of its long-term investment performance. The Company s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees
while managing compensation and other costs. The Company competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and private
equity funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. In addition, restrictive laws and regulations applicable to certain U.S. financial services institutions,
such as Morgan Stanley, which may prohibit the Company from engaging in certain transactions and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, can put the Company at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in certain businesses not
subject to these same requirements. See also   Supervision and Regulation  below and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.         
    Institutional Securities and Wealth Management.     
        The Company s competitive position for its Institutional
Securities and Wealth Management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. The Company competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and
with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there is increased competition driven by established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and
services.   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally
impacted by the Company s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients
may request that the Company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to increase in the future.   
        It is possible that competition may become even more intense
as the Company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide
range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on the Company s businesses. In addition, the Company s business is subject to increased regulation in the U.S. and abroad,
while certain of its competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the Company, thereby putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage.   
        The Company continues to experience intense price competition
in some of its businesses. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. The trend toward direct
access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. It is also possible that the Company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its
competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing).              Investment Management.              Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the Company s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment
strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality
of products offered. The Company s investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the
Company.               Supervision and Regulation.
            As a major financial services firm, the
Company is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it conducts its business. Moreover, in response to the
2007 2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose or are in the process of implementing a wide range of reforms that have resulted or that will result in major changes to
the way the Company is regulated and conducts its business. These reforms include the Dodd-Frank Act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ),
including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; proposed requirements for total loss-absorbing capacity, including long-term debt; and new resolution regimes that are being
developed in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. While certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods.   
        It is likely that there will be further material changes in
the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the Company s business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.              Financial Holding Company.               Consolidated Supervision.     The Company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHC Act since September 2008. As a bank holding company,
the Company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action
with respect to all of the Company s subsidiaries. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; more intensive
scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those   

Table of Contents  

businesses; new activities limitations; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of
the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the  Volcker Rule;  and comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over
the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable.         
   Scope of Permitted Activities.     The BHC Act limits the activities of bank holding companies and financial
holding companies and grants the Federal Reserve authority to limit the Company s ability to conduct activities. The Company must obtain the Federal Reserve s approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both
in the U.S. and internationally. Since becoming a bank holding company, the Company has disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act.   
        The BHC Act grandfathers  activities related to the
trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,  provided that the Company was engaged in  any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States  and provided that certain other
conditions that are within the Company s reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of the Company s commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then the Company
would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act. At this time, the Company believes, based on its interpretation of applicable law, that (i) such commodities activities qualify for the BHC
Act grandfather exemption or otherwise conform to the BHC Act and (ii) if the Federal Reserve were to determine otherwise, any required divestment would not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition. Additionally, the Federal
Reserve has stated that it is considering the issuance of a formal notice of proposed rulemaking to address the risks associated with financial holding companies  physical commodities activities and merchant banking investments in nonfinancial
companies, including rules that may impose additional capital, risk management and reporting requirements.         
   Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.     The Volcker Rule prohibits  banking entities, 
including the Company and its affiliates, from engaging in certain  proprietary trading  activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and
certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with  covered funds,  as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions. Banking entities were
required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs
reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule.            The Volcker Rule also requires that deductions be made from a bank holding company s Tier 1 capital for certain permissible investments in covered funds. Beginning with the three months ended
September 30, 2015, the required deductions are reflected in the Company s relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios. Given its complexity, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the
interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.             Capital Standards.     The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company and evaluates its compliance with such requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency (the  OCC ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company s U.S. bank subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association
( MSPBNA ) (collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ).             Basel III.     The current risk-based and leverage capital framework governing the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries is based on the Basel III capital standards established
by the Basel Committee, as modified in certain respects by the U.S. banking agencies, and is referred to herein as  U.S. Basel III.  Under U.S. Basel III, on a fully phased-in basis, the Company will be subject to the following
requirements:         

A supplementary leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, which includes a Tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2.0% in addition to the
3.0% minimum supplementary leverage ratio;      

Table of Contents  

A greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer;            

Up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer, if deployed by banking regulators; and      

A global systemically important bank capital surcharge, which the Federal Reserve calculated at 3% for the Company in July 2015.
              The Federal Reserve may require
the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company s particular
condition, risk profile and growth plans.            In
order for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to qualify as  well-capitalized  under the higher capital requirements in U.S. Basel III, they must maintain a Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital
ratio of at least 8%, a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the  well-capitalized  standard for financial holding companies to
reflect the higher capital standards in U.S. Basel III.            The Basel Committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the Basel III framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to U.S.
Basel III.            For more information about the capital
requirements applicable to the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  in
Part II, Item 7.             Capital Planning, Stress
Tests and Capital Distributions.     Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act
also requires each of the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. For more information about the capital planning and stress test requirements, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  in Part II, Item 7.         
  In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC ) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a
dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect the Company s ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock,
or require it to provide capital assistance to its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under circumstances which the Company would not otherwise decide to do so.         
   Liquidity Standards.     In addition to capital regulations, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee
have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio ( LCR ) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio
( NSFR ). The LCR requirements issued by the U.S. banking regulators ( U.S. LCR ) apply to the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. For more information, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Liquidity Framework  in Part II, Item 7.         
   Systemic Risk Regime.     The Dodd-Frank Act established a systemic risk regime to which bank holding companies
with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, are subject. Under rules issued by the Federal Reserve to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act s enhanced prudential standards, such bank holding companies
must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity
risk management requirements. Institutions also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements.         
  The Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would establish single counterparty credit limits and create a new early remediation framework
to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. The Federal Reserve also has the   

Table of Contents  

ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet
exposures. For example, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt
Requirement  in Part II, Item 7.            Under
the systemic risk regime, if the Federal Reserve or the Financial Stability Oversight Council determines that a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a  grave threat  to U.S. financial stability, the
institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and required to terminate activities and dispose of assets.   
        See also   Capital Standards  and
  Liquidity Standards  herein and   Resolution and Recovery Planning  below.         
   Resolution and Recovery Planning.     Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to submit to the
Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the Company. The Company s preferred
resolution strategy, which is set out in its 2015 resolution plan, submitted on July 1, 2015, is a single-point-of-entry ( SPOE ) strategy. On August 5, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC notified the Company and 10 other large
banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans needed to be addressed in their 2015 resolution plans. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC both were to determine that the Company s 2015 resolution plan is not
credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the Company does not cure the plan s deficiencies, the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions
on its growth, activities, or operations, or, after a two-year period, the Company may be required to divest assets or operations.         
  Further, the Company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could
take over time to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress.            Certain of the Company s domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, MSBNA must submit
to the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes MSBNA s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of MSBNA. The OCC has also proposed guidelines that would require insured national
banks with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which include MSBNA, to submit an annual recovery plan to the OCC.         
  In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Company and certain
covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain
extraordinary financial distress and systematic risk determinations by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the U.S. President. The orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and
others planned but not yet proposed. If the Company were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove officers and directors responsible for the Company s failure and to
appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign the Company s assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among the
Company s creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy
liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing an SPOE strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority and in
December 2013 issued a public notice inviting comments on the proposed strategy.            Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. For example, the Federal
Reserve has issued a proposed rule that would require top-tier bank holding companies of U.S. global systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ), including the Company, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt in order
to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources to be recapitalized under an SPOE resolution strategy. (The proposed rule also imposes additional requirements. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation   

Table of Contents  

Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt Requirements  in Part II, Item 7.) In addition, on November 12,
2015, in order to facilitate an SPOE resolution strategy, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, together with certain other  G-SIBs,  agreed to adhere to the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association ( ISDA ) 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (the  Protocol ), which applies to over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative transactions entered into among the adhering parties under ISDA Master Agreements and
securities financing transactions governed by specified securities financing transaction agreements. The Protocol overrides certain cross-default rights and certain other default rights related to the entry of an adhering party or certain of its
affiliates into certain resolution proceedings. The Federal Reserve is expected to promulgate regulations implementing and possibly expanding portions of, and the parties subject to, the Protocol.   
          U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.     
         U.S. Banking
Institutions.     MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products. It also conducts certain foreign exchange
activities.            MSPBNA offers certain mortgage and
other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ( MSSB LLC ). MSPBNA also offers certain deposit products,
as well as prime brokerage custody services.            Both
MSBNA and MSPBNA are FDIC-insured national banks subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. They are both subject to the OCC s risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank s
risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by the bank s board of directors.         
   Prompt Corrective Action.     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a
framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take  prompt corrective
action  ( PCA ) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current PCA regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MSPBNA and not
to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. Under the systemic risk regime, as described above, the Company also would become
subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. In addition, bank holding companies, such as the Company, are required to serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support
these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.             Transactions with Affiliates.     The Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on
 covered transactions  with any affiliates. Covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of
credit exposure that the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates. Other provisions set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Derivatives, securities
borrowing and securities lending transactions between the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates are subject to these restrictions. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more
recent restrictions.            In addition, the Volcker
Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) the Company or any of its affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which the Company or any of its affiliates serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading
advisor or sponsor or other covered funds organized and offered by the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the Volcker Rule.         
   FDIC Regulation.     An FDIC-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or
expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of MSBNA and MSPBNA
could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the other. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration of the FDIC s reserve fund must
be paid for   

Table of Contents  

exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA, and FDIC deposit insurance assessments are calculated using a methodology that generally results in a lower charge for banks that
are mostly funded by deposits.         
    Institutional Securities and Wealth Management.     
         Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser
Regulation.     The Company s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC ( MS Co. ) and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District
of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), and various securities exchanges and clearing
organizations. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers  funds and
securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by
securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or
registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. Morgan Stanley s broker-dealer
subsidiaries are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer.   
        MSSB LLC is also a registered investment adviser with the
SEC. MSSB LLC s relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder
as well as various state securities laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit MSSB LLC from carrying on its
investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of
clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines.            The Company is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty
applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers, although the SEC has not yet acted on this authority. As a separate matter, in April 2015, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a
proposed rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that, when finalized, would subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and may limit certain transactions and activities involving retirement accounts. These developments may
impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities.         
  Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and
proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization
rules. In many cases, the Company s broker-dealer subsidiaries  margin policies are more stringent than these rules.         
  As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the SEC s net capital rule and the net capital
requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or
liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also   Financial Holding Company Consolidated Supervision  and   Financial Holding Company Liquidity Standards  above. Rules of FINRA and other
self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations  assets.         
  Compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit the Company s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such
requirements restrict the Company s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such
rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a   

Table of Contents  

significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the Company s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In
addition, such rules may require the Company to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.             Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities.     MS Co.,
as a futures commission merchant, and MSSB LLC, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ), the National Futures
Association (the  NFA ), a registered futures association, CME Group, and various commodity futures exchanges. MS Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and
regulations of the CFTC, NFA and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of
customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading.   
        The Company s commodities activities are subject to
extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S.
and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. See also   Financial Holding Company Scope of
Permitted Activities  above.             Derivatives
Regulation.     Under the U.S. regulatory regime for  swaps  and  security-based swaps  (collectively,  Swaps ) implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is subject to regulations
including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of Swaps. While the CFTC has completed the majority of its regulations in this area,
most of which are in effect, the SEC has not yet adopted a number of its Swaps regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of  swap dealers  with the CFTC and  security-based swap dealers  with the SEC
(collectively,  Swaps Entities ). Certain of the Company s subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and will in the future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. Swaps Entities are or
will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared Swaps and comprehensive business conduct rules.
           The specific parameters of some of these
requirements for Swaps have been and continue to be developed through the CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. In October 2015, the federal banking regulators issued a final rule establishing minimum uncleared Swap margin requirements for Swaps
Entities that they prudentially regulate, which includes MSBNA. The rule requires the exchange of initial and variation margin for uncleared Swaps with certain types of counterparties. Similarly, in December 2015, the CFTC issued a final rule
establishing uncleared Swap margin requirements for swap dealers that are not subject to regulation by the federal banking regulators, which includes Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC and Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc
( MSIP ).            Although the full impact of
U.S. derivatives regulation on the Company remains unclear, the Company has already faced, and will continue to face, increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. Complying with the
Swaps rules also has required, and will in the future require, the Company to change its Swaps businesses and has required, and will in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. Compliance with Swaps-related regulatory capital
requirements may require the Company to devote more capital to its Swaps business.             Research.     Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions.
FINRA adopted amendments to its equity research rules (effective December 2015) and adopted new rules for debt research (to be effective April 2016). New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement
with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which the Company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.   
         Non-U.S. Regulation.     The
Company s Institutional Securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks

Table of Contents  

and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company maintains an office. Non-U.S. policy makers and regulators, including the European Commission and European
Supervisory Authorities (among others the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous market reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and
formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to the Company s European operations. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they
operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance,
the Prudential Regulation Authority ( PRA ), the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) and several securities and futures exchanges in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures
Europe, regulate the Company s activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt f r Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche B rse AG regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of
Germany; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, regulate its activities in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.   
        Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions
have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, banking structural reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries that operate in those
jurisdictions. For example, MSIP is subject to regulation and supervision by the PRA with respect to prudential matters. As a prudential regulator, the PRA seeks to promote the safety and soundness of the firms that it regulates and to minimize the
adverse effects that such firms may have on the stability of the U.K. financial system. The PRA has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards to pursue these objectives, including approvals of relevant regulatory models, as
well as to bring public and non-public disciplinary actions against regulated firms to address noncompliance with such standards. MSIP is also regulated and supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters. European Market
Infrastructure Regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives. In addition, the E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ( BRRD ) has established a recovery and resolution framework
for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. E.U. Member States were required to apply provisions implementing the BRRD as of January 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. New directives and regulations originally
expected to apply from January 3, 2017 (currently with potential delay of one year) will introduce various trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U., subject to restrictions              Investment Management.     
        Many of the subsidiaries engaged in the Company s asset
management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of the Company s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client.
These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with
such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the Company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of
clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate its asset management business, the Company owns a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to
the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by the Company s Investment Management business segment. In addition, certain affiliates of the Company are registered as commodity trading
advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. Violations of the rules of
the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. See also   Institutional
Securities and Wealth Management Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation  and   Institutional Securities and Wealth Management Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities  above.

Table of Contents  

   As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company s asset management
activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or
investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with,  covered funds,  as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. Many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the
Company s asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the Company is able to generate for its asset management clients. See also   Financial Holding Company Activities Restrictions under the Volcker
Rule.             The Company s Investment
Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FCA is the primary regulator of the Company s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates the Company s business in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities
and Futures Commission regulates the Company s business in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company s business in Singapore. See also   Institutional Securities and Wealth Management Non-U.S.
Regulation  herein.              Financial Crimes
Program.              The Company s Financial
Crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports the Company s financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of the Company s
Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ), economic sanctions ( Sanctions ) and anti-corruption programs.         
  In the U.S. the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to
detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML
programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require
designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. The Company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Regarding Sanctions, the Company
has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ), which target
foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and as applicable similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral
organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council.            The Company is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Anti-corruption laws
generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business
advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.              Protection of Client Information.              Many aspects of the Company s businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and
protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including
the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. The Company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant
jurisdictions.              Compensation Practices and
Other Regulation.              The Company s
compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In particular, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve s guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not
encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations  safety and soundness. The scope and content of   

Table of Contents  

the Federal Reserve s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and the Company expects that these policies
will evolve over a number of years.            The Company
is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact its compensation practices. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must prescribe regulations
to require covered financial institutions, including the Company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by
providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. In April 2011, seven federal agencies, including the Federal Reserve,
jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. Further, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in July 2015, the SEC proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover
incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies.   
        The Company s compensation practices may also be
impacted by regulations in other jurisdictions. The Company s compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the Company s E.U. operations are subject to the CRD IV
and related E.U. and Member State regulations, including, amongst others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration and clawback arrangements in relation to variable remuneration paid in the past. In the U.K., the
remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the Remuneration Codes in the PRA and FCA Handbooks, including since January 1, 2014, provisions that implement the CRD IV as well as additional U.K. requirements.
           For a discussion of certain risks relating to the
Company s regulatory environment, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.               Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.          
  The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 23, 2016 are set forth below. Business experience for
the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.             Jeffrey S. Brodsky (51) .    Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources
(January 2011 to December 2015). Co-Head of Human Resources (January 2010 to December 2011). Head of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Human Resources (June 2009 to January 2010).   
         James P. Gorman (57) .    Chairman
of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 through December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010). Co-President
(December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of Wealth Management (February 2006 to April 2008).             Eric F. Grossman (49) .    Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan
Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Wealth Management
(November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk   Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).         
   Keishi Hotsuki (53) .    Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley
(since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk
Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007).             Colm Kelleher (58) .    President of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Executive Vice President (October 2007 to January 2016). President of Institutional Securities (January
2013 to January 2016). Head of International (January 2011 to January 2016). Co-President of Institutional Securities (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and Co-  

Table of Contents  

Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).   
         Jonathan M. Pruzan
(47) .    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2015). Co-Head of Global Financial Institutions Group (January 2010 to April 2015). Co-Head of North American Financial Institutions
Group M A (September 2007 to December 2009). Head of the U.S. Bank Group (April 2005 to August 2007).         
   James A. Rosenthal (62) .    Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (since
January 2011). Head of Corporate Strategy (January 2010 to May 2011). Chief Operating Officer of Wealth Management (January 2010 to August 2011). Head of Firmwide Technology and Operations of Morgan Stanley (March 2008 to January 2010). Chief
Financial Officer of Tishman Speyer (May 2006 to March 2008).   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
     Risk Factors.             
  For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company s future results and strategic goals, see
 Forward-Looking Statements  immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and  Return on Equity Target  and  Effects of Inflation and Changes in Interest and Foreign Exchange Rates  under  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7.             Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices),
correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.              Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors.              Our results of operations have been in the past and may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to
global and economic conditions and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices. The results of our Institutional
Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or
predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which,
among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level
of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Wealth Management business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market
activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact
our Investment Management business segment.            The
value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments,
particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective
performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand
and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations
in future periods.            In addition, financial markets
are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating
trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. Our
risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were
to occur.   

Table of Contents  

     Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.     
        Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses
in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the
securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region.         
   Credit Risk.          
  Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. For
more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.   
          We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are
indebted to us will not perform their obligations.              We incur significant credit risk exposure through our Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to
clients through various loans and lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; entering into swap or
other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial
counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.   
        We also incur credit risk in our Wealth Management business
segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit.   
        While we believe current valuations and reserves adequately
address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. In addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could
be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.   
          A default by a large financial institution could
adversely affect financial markets.              The
commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. For example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular
clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution
could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as  systemic risk  and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies,
clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact with on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. See also  Systemic Risk Regime  under  Business Supervision and
Regulation Financial Holding Company  in Part I, Item 1.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and
compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets). We may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups
( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). Legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal, Regulatory and

Table of Contents  

Compliance Risk.  For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk
Management Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.              We are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could adversely affect our businesses or reputation.
             Our businesses are highly dependent on
our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. In addition, we may introduce new products or
services or change processes, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in using
increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through
agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions.   
        As a major participant in the global capital markets, we
maintain extensive controls to reduce the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. Nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely
eliminated.            We also face the risk of operational
failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party s
systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. In addition, the
interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an
industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business.            Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. Our ability to conduct business may be
adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the New York metropolitan area, London, Hong Kong and Tokyo as well as Mumbai, Budapest, Glasgow
and Baltimore. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural disasters, extreme weather events, electrical, environmental, computer servers,
communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.         
  Although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and
detection prevention systems, monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide
absolute security. Like other financial services firms, we and our third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain
confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third
parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends.
Any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. There
can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.   
        If one or more of these events occur, it could result in a
security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients , partners  or counterparties  personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party
providers  computer systems. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties  or third parties  operations, which could result in reputational

Table of Contents  

damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations,
litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.   
        Given our global footprint and the high volume of
transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection.
We expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. During such time we would
not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences
of a cyber attack.            While many of our agreements
with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. In addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may,
subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.         
   Liquidity and Funding Risk.          
  Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital
markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as
a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part
II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Liquidity and Funding Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.   
          Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on
external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the
secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the U.S. and other geographic
areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an
incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct
or illegal activity. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable
to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.              Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.
             The cost and availability of unsecured
financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. The rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the
level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. Additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory
or legislative changes, including, for example, regulatory changes relating to total loss absorbing capacity requirements, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our
ratings and those of similar institutions.            Our
credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and
interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements   

Table of Contents  

associated with our Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain
counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. Termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash
payments or securities movements. The additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s Investor Services and
Standard   Poor s Rating Services. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Ratings Incremental Collateral or
Terminating Payments upon Potential Future Rating Downgrade  in Part II, Item 7.              We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.           
  The parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to
fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our
subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit
such transfers altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to  ring fence  entities by regulators outside of the U.S. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such
entities. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability
to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise,
including us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.         
    Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by U.S. and
international markets and economic conditions.              Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely
affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economies. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. In particular, our cost and
availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Significant turbulence in the U.S., the E.U. and other international markets and economies could
adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.         
   Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk.          
  Legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines,
penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business
activities. This risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. It also includes compliance with AML and terrorist financing rules and regulations. In
today s environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and
compliance risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Legal and Compliance Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.   
          The financial services industry is subject to extensive
regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business.              Like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the
major markets where we conduct our business. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain
investments.   

Table of Contents  

   In response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and
worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of financial market reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated and conducted.
In particular, as a result of these reforms, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those
businesses, new activities limitations, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, new resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new requirements for
maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the Volcker Rule, and comprehensive new derivatives regulation. While certain portions of
these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods. Many of the changes required by these reforms could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to
additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our
shareholders or creditors. In addition, regulatory requirements that are being proposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the U.S. and, if adopted, may adversely affect
us. While there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the Company is and will continue to be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well
as to monitor for compliance in the future.         
    The application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the United States to facilitate the orderly resolution of large
financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for the security holders of the Company.           
  Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that
describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the Company. In addition, provided that certain procedures are met, the Company can be subject to a
resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver. The FDIC s power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims
and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of the Company s unsecured debt. See  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I,
Item 1.            Further, because both our resolution
plan contemplates a single-point-of-entry ( SPOE ) strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the FDIC has proposed an SPOE strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of
an SPOE strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional
capital and liquidity by the Company to certain subsidiaries in an effort to ensure that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy. Although this strategy, whether applied pursuant to the Company s
resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an SPOE strategy will not result in greater losses
for holders of the Company s securities compared to a different resolution strategy for the firm.         
  Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation
authority or other resolution regimes. For example, the Federal Reserve has issued a proposed rule that would require top-tier bank holding companies of U.S. G-SIBs, including the Company, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term
debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity  or  TLAC ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by
imposing losses on eligible TLAC where the SPOE strategy is used.              The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.     
        As a global financial services firm, we face the risk of
investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. Interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments,

Table of Contents  

settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on,
certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including
us. Significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also
provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the SEC or CFTC with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. As a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an
increased number of investigations by the SEC or CFTC.            We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory
agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims
for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. Like any large
corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information.   
          We may be responsible for representations and
warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves.           
  We originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and
residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. In connection with these activities, we have provided,
or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were
breached. We have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. For additional information, see also Note 12
to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.            We currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. If there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses
substantially in excess of our reserves. In addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. If those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially.   
          Our commodities activities subject us to extensive
regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.           
  In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage,
transportation, marketing and execution of transactions in several commodities, including metals, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, and other commodity products. In addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and own
electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and own a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities,
we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. In addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and
regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change.            Although we have attempted to mitigate our environmental risks by, among other measures, selling or ceasing
much of our prior petroleum storage and transportation activities and adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every
contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from   

Table of Contents  

insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely
affected by these events.            The BHC Act provides a
grandfather exemption for  activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,  provided that we were engaged in  any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United
States  and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then
we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act. See also  Scope of Permitted Activities  under  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1.
           We also expect the other laws and regulations
affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in
increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. In addition, new regulation of OTC derivatives markets in the U.S. and similar legislation
proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. We may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our
overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.   
          A failure to address conflicts of interest
appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.              As a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face
potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on
the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the
focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is possible that potential conflicts could give rise
to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.   
        Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities
for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. Our status as a bank holding company supervised by the Federal Reserve subjects us to direct Federal Reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions
between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates.             Risk
Management.               Our risk management
strategies, models and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk.           
  We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the
future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies, models and processes, including our use of various risk models for assessing market exposures and hedging strategies, stress testing and other analysis, may not be fully effective in mitigating
our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. As our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies, models
and processes may not always adapt with those changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management s judgment. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk
exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, many models we use are based on assumptions or inputs regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators and
therefore cannot anticipate sudden, unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements, which could cause us to incur losses.   

Table of Contents  

   Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks
requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our trading risk management strategies and techniques also
seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany
their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. For example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions
on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. For more information on how we monitor
and manage market and certain other risks and related strategies, models and processes, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.   
         Competitive Environment.    
          We face strong competition from other financial
services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.           
  The financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete
with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services
in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time,
certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such
changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. We have experienced and may
continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. In addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less
stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see  Business Competition  and
 Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1.              Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.           
  We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities,
derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. The trend
toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. We have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive
pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees.   
          Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees
is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.           
  Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. If we are unable to continue to attract and
retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive
position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback
requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees.   

Table of Contents  

    International Risk.    
          We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal,
operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.           
  We are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many
countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political
and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in
every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced
risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.            Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign
debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These
conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.         
  The emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as
natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that
could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.            As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as
applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. A violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual
employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties.             Acquisition, Divestiture and Joint Venture Risk.          
    We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic
alliances.              In connection with past or
future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or strategic alliances (including with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and
systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority
stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.   
        In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of
our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture.         
  There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the
positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and
adversely affected.            Certain of our business
initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to

Table of Contents  

new asset classes and new markets. These business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and
operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.         
  For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also  Business Supervision and
Regulation  in Part I, Item 1.         

Item 1B.   
     Unresolved Staff Comments.             
  The Company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its
periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the Company believes are material.

Item 2.   
     Properties.             
  The Company has offices, operations and data centers located around the world. The Company s properties that are not owned are leased
on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. The Company believes the facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and
are well maintained. The Company s principal offices include the following properties:         

(1)  
    The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space leased by Morgan Stanley branch offices.      

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
     Legal Proceedings.             
  In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a
defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions
include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.
           The Company is also involved, from time to time,
in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or
offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the Company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.   
        The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages
as appropriate in each pending matter. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the
Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. The Company s future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global
financial services firms, including the Company.         
  In many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible, or
to estimate the amount of any loss. The Company cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for
proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be
resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled
legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. Subject to the foregoing, the Company
believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of
such proceedings or investigations could be material to the Company s operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the Company s revenues or income for such period.   
        Over the last several years, the level of litigation and
investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages
and other relief and, while the Company has identified below certain proceedings that the Company believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that
have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be material.             Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters.          
    Regulatory and Governmental Matters.      The Company has received subpoenas and requests for information
from certain federal and state regulatory and governmental entities, including among others various members of the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, such as the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division and
several state Attorney General s Offices, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related matters such as residential mortgage backed securities
( RMBS ), collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ), structured investment vehicles ( SIVs ) and credit default swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass-through certificates. These matters, some of which are in
advanced stages, include, but are not limited to, investigations related to the Company s due diligence on the loans that it purchased for securitization, the Company s communications with ratings agencies, the Company s disclosures
to investors, and the Company s handling of servicing and foreclosure related issues.   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2014, the California Attorney General s Office ( CAAG ), which is one
of the members of the RMBS Working Group, indicated that it has made certain preliminary conclusions that the Company made knowing and material misrepresentations regarding RMBS and that it knowingly caused material misrepresentations to be made
regarding the Cheyne SIV, which issued securities marketed to the California Public Employees Retirement System. The CAAG has further indicated that it believes the Company s conduct violated California law and that it may seek treble damages,
penalties and injunctive relief. The Company does not agree with these conclusions and has presented defenses to them to the CAAG.         
  In October 2014, the Illinois Attorney General s Office ( ILAG ) sent a letter to the Company alleging that the Company
knowingly made misrepresentations related to RMBS purchased by certain pension funds affiliated with the State of Illinois and demanding that the Company pay ILAG approximately $88 million. The Company and ILAG reached an agreement to resolve the
matter on February 10, 2016.            On January 13,
2015, the New York Attorney General s Office ( NYAG ), which is also a member of the RMBS Working Group, indicated that it intends to file a lawsuit related to approximately 30 subprime securitizations sponsored by the Company. NYAG
indicated that the lawsuit would allege that the Company misrepresented or omitted material information related to the due diligence, underwriting and valuation of the loans in the securitizations and the properties securing them and indicated that
its lawsuit would be brought under the Martin Act. The Company and NYAG reached an agreement to resolve the matter on February 10, 2016.         
  On February 25, 2015, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division and
the United States Attorney s Office for the Northern District of California, Civil Division (collectively, the  Civil Division ) to pay $2.6 billion to resolve certain claims that the Civil Division indicated it intended to bring
against the Company. That settlement was finalized on February 10, 2016.              Civil Litigation.              On December 23, 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle filed a complaint against the Company and another defendant in the Superior Court of the State of Washington, styled  Federal Home Loan
Bank of Seattle v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Inc., et al.  The amended complaint, filed on September 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage
pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $233 million. The complaint raises claims under the
Washington State Securities Act and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. By orders dated June 23, 2011 and July 18, 2011, the court denied defendants  omnibus motion to dismiss
plaintiff s amended complaint and on August 15, 2011, the court denied the Company s individual motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On March 7, 2013, the court granted defendants  motion to strike plaintiff s
demand for a jury trial. The defendants  joint motions for partial summary judgment were denied on November 9, 2015.         
  On March 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the
Superior Court of the State of California styled  Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. et al.  An amended complaint, filed on June 10, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material
omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company was
approximately $276 million. The complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and California law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. On August 11, 2011, plaintiff s
federal securities law claims were dismissed with prejudice. On February 9, 2012, defendants  demurrers with respect to all other claims were overruled. On December 20, 2013, plaintiff s negligent misrepresentation claims were
dismissed with prejudice.            On July 15, 2010,
The Charles Schwab Corp. filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Superior Court of the State of California, styled  The Charles Schwab Corp. v. BNP Paribas Securities Corp., et   al . The second amended complaint,
filed on March 5, 2012, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to one of plaintiff s subsidiaries of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts

Table of Contents  

containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff s subsidiary by the Company was approximately $180 million. The amended complaint raises
claims under California law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. On April 10, 2012, the Company filed a demurrer to certain causes of action in the second amended complaint, which the
court overruled on July 24, 2012. On November 24, 2014, plaintiff s negligent misrepresentation claims were dismissed with prejudice. An initial trial of certain of plaintiff s claims is scheduled to begin in July 2016.
           On July 15, 2010, China Development
Industrial Bank ( CDIB ) filed a complaint against the Company, styled  China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated et al ., which is pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York
County ( Supreme Court of NY ). The complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the STACK 2006-1 CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and
fraudulent concealment and alleges that the Company misrepresented the risks of the STACK 2006-1 CDO to CDIB, and that the Company knew that the assets backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The
complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of CDIB s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable
relief, fees and costs. On February 28, 2011, the court denied the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint.         
  On October 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Circuit
Court of the State of Illinois, styled  Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corporation et al . A corrected amended complaint was filed on April 8, 2011. The corrected amended complaint alleges that defendants made
untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of a number of mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans and asserts claims under Illinois law. The total amount of
certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Company at issue in the action was approximately $203 million. The complaint seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. The defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the corrected amended complaint on May 27, 2011, which was denied on September 19, 2012. On December 13, 2013, the court entered an order dismissing all claims related to one of the securitizations at issue. After that
dismissal, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $78 million.         
  On April 20, 2011, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Superior
Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts styled  Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston v. Ally Financial, Inc. F/K/A GMAC LLC et al.  An amended complaint was filed on June 29, 2012 and alleges that defendants made untrue statements and
material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff by
the Company was approximately $385 million. The amended complaint raises claims under the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act, the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act and common law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s
purchase of such certificates. On May 26, 2011, defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The defendants  motions to dismiss the amended complaint were granted in part and denied in
part on September 30, 2013. On November 25, 2013, July 16, 2014, and May 19, 2015, respectively, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its claims against the Company with respect to three of the securitizations at issue. After
these voluntary dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $332 million.   
        On August 7, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as
trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-4SL against the Company styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage
Capital   Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million,
breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 8,
2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint.   

Table of Contents  

   On August 8, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf
of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-14SL, Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2007-4SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-4SL against the Company. The complaint is styled
 Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc . and is pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for
breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint
seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the
Company s motion to dismiss the complaint.         
  On September 28, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust
2006-13ARX against the Company styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.,  pending in the Supreme Court of NY.
Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached
various representations and warranties. The amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. By order entered September 30, 2014, the court granted in part and
denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On July 13, 2015, plaintiff perfected its appeal from the court s September 30, 2014 decision.            On December 14, 2012, Royal Park Investments SA/NV filed a complaint against the Company, certain
affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Merrill Lynch et al.  On October 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Royal
Park Investments SA/NV v. Morgan Stanley et al. , alleging that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing
residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, negligent
misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on December 1, 2015.            On January 10, 2013, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley
Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-10SL against the Company. The complaint is styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley   Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as
successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.  and is pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original
principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the Company to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents,
unspecified damages, and interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint.         
  On January 31, 2013, HSH Nordbank AG and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the Company, certain affiliates, and other
defendants in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  HSH Nordbank AG et al. v. Morgan Stanley   et al.  The complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage
pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company to plaintiff was approximately $524 million. The complaint
alleges causes of action against the Company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On April 12,
2013, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on July 21, 2015. On August 19, 2015, the Company filed a Notice of Appeal of the court s decision, and on August 20, 2015,
the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Cross-Appeal. On August 25, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend their complaint.         
  On May 3, 2013, plaintiffs in  Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank AG et al. v. Morgan Stanley et al.  filed a complaint
against the Company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint alleges that   

Table of Contents  

defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage
loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company to plaintiff was approximately $644 million. The complaint alleges causes of action against the Company for common law fraud, fraudulent
concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On June 10, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motion to
dismiss the complaint. The Company perfected its appeal from that decision on June 12, 2015.            On May 17, 2013, plaintiff in  IKB International S.A. in Liquidation, et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al.  filed a complaint against the Company and certain affiliates in the Supreme Court of NY.
The complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of
certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. The complaint alleges causes of action against the Company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting
fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On October 29, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss. All claims regarding four
certificates were dismissed. After these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company or sold to plaintiff by the Company was approximately $116 million. On August 26, 2015, the Company perfected its appeal
from the court s October 29, 2014 decision.            On July 2, 2013, Deutsche Bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in  Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, on behalf
of the Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series 2007-NC1 (MSAC 2007-NC1) v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , and filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of NY under the caption  Deutsche Bank National Trust 
 Company, as Trustee for the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series 2007-NC1 v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I, Inc.  On February 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The
amended complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. On March 12, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the
amended complaint.            On July 8, 2013, U.S.
Bank National Association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2007-2AX, by U.S. Bank National Association, solely in its capacity as Trustee v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as
successor-by-merger to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., and Greenpoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the
trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction
documents, unspecified damages and interest. On August 22, 2013, the Company a filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on November 24, 2014.   
        On August 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the
Company and certain affiliates in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Phoenix Light SF Limited et al v. Morgan Stanley et al . The complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their
assignors, of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the
Company was approximately $344 million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory
damages, punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on December 13, 2013, which the parties later agreed would
be deemed to be directed at an amended complaint filed on June 17, 2014. On April 23, 2015, the court granted the Company s motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on May 21, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a notice of
appeal of that order.            On November 6, 2013,
Deutsche Bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in  Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, on behalf of the Trustee of the Morgan Stanley 

Table of Contents  

ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series 2007-NC3 (MSAC 2007-NC3) v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC , and filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of NY under the caption  Deutsche
Bank National Trust Company, solely in its capacity as Trustee for Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series 2007-NC3 v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.  The
complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion,
breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. On
December 16, 2013, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.            On December 30, 2013, Wilmington Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2007-12, filed a complaint against the Company. The matter is styled  Wilmington
Trust Company v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC et al.  and is pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an
original principal balance of approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. On February 28, 2014, the defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the complaint.            On April 28, 2014,
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley Structured Trust I 2007-1, filed a complaint against the Company. The matter is styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital
Holdings LLC  and is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ( SDNY ). The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had
an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents,
unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. On April 3, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint.            On September 19, 2014, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company ( FGIC ) filed a complaint against
the Company in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al.  The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin
securities ( NIMS ) in the trust breached various representations and warranties. FGIC issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. The complaint seeks, among
other relief, specific performance of the NIM breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys  fees and interest. On
November 24, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.            On September 23, 2014, FGIC filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of NY styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al.  The
complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to
induce FGIC to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of certificates that had an original balance of approximately $876 million. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the
transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages, attorneys  fees and interest. On November 24, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.            On January 23, 2015, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint
against the Company styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust 2007-NC4 v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley
Mortgage Capital Inc., and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal
balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential,
rescissory, equitable and punitive damages, attorneys  fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. On October 20, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint.   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Mortgage Related Matter.             On January 25, 2011, the Company was named as a defendant in  The Bank of New York Mellon Trust,
National Association v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital, Inc.,  a litigation pending in the SDNY. The suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the Company breached certain
representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the Company. The complaint seeks, among other things, to have the Company repurchase the loan and pay
additional monetary damages. On June 16, 2014, the court granted the Company s supplemental motion for summary judgment. On July 16, 2014, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal.   
         Currency Related Matters.    
          Regulatory and Governmental Matters.
             The Company is responding to a number of
regulatory and governmental inquiries both in the United States and abroad related to its foreign exchange business. In addition, on June 29, 2015, the Company and a number of other financial institutions were named as respondents in a
proceeding before Brazil s Council for Economic Defense related to alleged anticompetitive activity in the foreign exchange market for the Brazilian Real.         
    Class Action Litigation.           
  Beginning in December 2013, several foreign exchange dealers (including the Company and certain affiliates) were named as defendants in
multiple purported antitrust class actions most of which have now been consolidated into a single proceeding in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York styled  In Re Foreign Exchange Benchmark Rates Antitrust
Litigation . On July 16, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint generally alleging that defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix, maintain or make artificial prices for key benchmark rates, to manipulate bid/ask spreads, and, by their
behavior in the over-the-counter market, to thereby cause corresponding manipulation in the foreign exchange futures market. Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief as well as treble damages in an unspecified amount. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss
the amended complaint on November 30, 2015.         
  On September 11, 2015, several foreign exchange dealers (including the Company and an affiliate) were named as defendants in a
purported class action filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice styled  Christopher Staines v. Royal Bank of Canada, et al.  The plaintiff has made allegations similar to those in the  In Re Foreign Exchange Benchmark Rates Antitrust
Litigation  and seeks C$1 billion as well as C$50 million in punitive damages. On September 16, 2015, a parallel proceeding was initiated in Quebec Superior Court styled  Christine Beland v. Royal Bank of Canada, et al.  based on
similar allegations and seeking C$100 million as well as C$50 million in punitive damages.             Wealth Management Related Matters.             The Company is currently defending itself in an ongoing arbitration styled  Lynnda L. Speer, as Personal Representative of the Estate of Roy M. Speer, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, et
al. , which is pending before a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel in the state of Florida. Plaintiffs assert claims for excessive trading, unauthorized use of discretion, undue influence, negligence and negligent
supervision, constructive fraud, abuse of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and violations of several Florida statutes in connection with brokerage accounts owned by a former high-net worth wealth management client who is now deceased. Plaintiffs
are seeking approximately $475 million in disgorgement, compensatory damages, statutory damages, punitive damages and treble damages under various factual and legal theories.   
         The following matters were terminated during or following the quarter
ended December 31, 2015:             On
January 20, 2012, Sealink Funding Limited filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Sealink Funding Limited v. Morgan Stanley, et al.  A second amended complaint, filed on March 20, 2013, alleged that
defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the
Company and/or sold by the Company was approximately $507 million. On April 18, 2014, the court granted the Company s motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. The dismissal was affirmed on appeal on November 12, 2015.

Table of Contents  

   On January 25, 2012, Dexia SA/NV and certain of its affiliated entities filed a
complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Dexia SA/NV et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al.  An amended complaint was filed on May 24, 2012 and alleged that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the
sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Company and/or sold to plaintiffs by the Company was
approximately $626 million. On October 16, 2013, the court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The dismissal was affirmed on appeal on January 12, 2016.   
        On April 25, 2012, The Prudential Insurance Company of
America and certain affiliates filed a complaint against the Company and certain affiliates in the Superior Court of the State of New Jersey, styled  The Prudential Insurance Company of America, et al. v. Morgan Stanley, et al.  On
October 16, 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. The amended complaint alleged that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in connection with the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed
by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company was approximately $1.073 billion. The amended complaint raises claims under the New Jersey
Uniform Securities Law, as well as common law claims of negligent misrepresentation, fraud, fraudulent inducement, equitable fraud, aiding and abetting fraud, and violations of the New Jersey RICO statute, and includes a claim for treble damages. On
January 8, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation.            On August 10, 2012, the FDIC, as receiver for Colonial Bank, filed a complaint against the Company and other defendants in the Circuit Court of Montgomery, Alabama styled  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation as Receiver for Colonial Bank v. Citigroup Mortgage Loan Trust Inc. et al.  On January 15, 2014, the FDIC, as receiver for United Western Bank filed a complaint against the Company and others in the District Court of the State of
Colorado, styled  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as Receiver for United Western Bank v. Banc of America Funding Corp., et al.  The complaints in those cases asserted that the Company made untrue statements and material omissions in
connection with the sale of mortgage pass-through certificates purchased by Colonial Bank and United Western Bank, respectively. On January 28, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle both actions.   
        On August 5, 2013, Landesbank Baden-W rttemberg and
two affiliates filed a complaint against the Company and certain affiliates in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Landesbank Baden-W rttemberg et al. v. Morgan Stanley et al.  The complaint alleged that defendants made material
misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or
sold by the Company to plaintiffs was approximately $50 million. On January 20, 2016, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation.   
        On August 16, 2013, the plaintiff in  National Credit
Union Administration Board v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, et al.  filed a complaint against the Company and certain affiliates in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas. On September 23, 2013, the
plaintiff in  National Credit Union Administration Board v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Inc., et al.  filed a complaint against the Company and certain affiliates in the SDNY. The complaints alleged that defendants made untrue statements of
material fact or omitted to state material facts in the sale to the plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates issued by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored,
underwritten and/or sold by the Company to plaintiffs in the matters was approximately $567 million and $417 million, respectively. The complaints alleged violations of federal and various state securities laws and sought, among other things,
rescissionary and compensatory damages. On November 23, 2015, the parties reached an agreement to settle both matters.         
  On September 16, 2014, the Virginia Attorney General s Office filed a civil lawsuit, styled  Commonwealth of Virginia ex rel.
Integra REC LLC v. Barclays Capital Inc., et al. , against the Company and several other defendants in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond related to RMBS. The lawsuit alleged that the Company and the other defendants knowingly made
misrepresentations and omissions related to the loans backing RMBS purchased by the Virginia Retirement System. The complaint asserts claims under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act, as well as common law claims of actual and constructive
fraud, and seeks, among other things, treble damages and civil penalties. On January 6, 2016, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation. An order dismissing the action with prejudice was entered on January 28, 2016.

Table of Contents  

     Matters Related to the CDS Market.     
        On July 1, 2013, the European Commission
( EC ) issued a Statement of Objections ( SO ) addressed to twelve financial firms (including the Company), the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ( ISDA ) and Markit Group Limited
( Markit ) and various affiliates alleging that, between 2006 and 2009, the recipients breached European Union competition law by taking and refusing to take certain actions in an effort to prevent the development of exchange traded credit
default swap ( CDS ) products. The Company and the other recipients of the SO filed a response to the SO on January 21, 2014, and attended oral hearings before the EC during the period May 12-19, 2014. On December 4, 2015,
the EC announced that it had closed its antitrust investigation into the twelve financial firms, including the Company.         
  Beginning in May 2013, twelve financial firms (including the Company), as well as ISDA and Markit, were named as defendants in multiple
purported antitrust class actions consolidated into a single proceeding in the SDNY styled  In Re: Credit Default Swaps Antitrust Litigation . Plaintiffs alleged that defendants violated United States antitrust laws from 2008 to present in
connection with their alleged efforts to prevent the development of exchange traded CDS products. The complaints sought, among other relief, certification of a class of plaintiffs who purchased CDS from defendants in the United States, treble
damages and injunctive relief. On September 30, 2015, the Company reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle the litigation. The settlement received preliminary court approval on October 29, 2015, and is subject to final court
approval.         

Item 4.   
     Mine Safety Disclosures.             
  Not applicable.   

Table of Contents  

      Part II    

Item 5.   
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
               Morgan Stanley s
common stock trades under the symbol  MS  on the New York Stock Exchange. As of February 17, 2016, the Company had 68,615 holders of record; however, the Company believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.
           The table below sets forth, for each of the last
eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of the Company s common stock as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets and the amount of dividends declared per common share by its Board of Directors for such quarter.   

Table of Contents  

   The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of
the Company of its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2015.             Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (dollars in millions, except per
share amounts)         

(1)  
    Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions
(including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate and may be suspended at any time.      

(2)  
    The Company s Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of the Company s outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the
 Share Repurchase Program ). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements.
The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. In March 2015, the Company received no objection from the Federal Reserve to repurchase up to $3.1 billion
of the Company s outstanding common stock during the period that began April 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016 under the Company s 2015 capital plan. During the quarter ended December 31, 2015, the Company repurchased
approximately $625 million of the Company s outstanding common stock as part of its Share Repurchase Program. For further information, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Management  in Part II, Item 7.

(3)  
    Includes shares acquired by the Company in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations on stock-based awards and the exercise price of stock
options granted under the Company s stock-based compensation plans.               ***   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Performance Graph.    
        The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder
return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the Company s common stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index ( S P 500 ) and the S P 500 Financials Index ( S5FINL ) for the last five years. The
graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on December 31, 2010 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. This graph does not forecast future performance of the Company s common
stock.             CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN    
   December 31, 2010 - December 31, 2015        

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
     Selected Financial Data.             
   MORGAN STANLEY        SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except share and per share
data)          

Table of Contents  

N/M Not Meaningful.   

(1)  
    Reflects 51% ownership of the retail securities joint venture between the Company and Citigroup Inc. up to September 17, 2012, 65% up to
June 28, 2013 and 100% thereafter (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8).      

(2)  
    Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings (loss) per basic and diluted common share.      

(3)  
    For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8.      

(5)  
    Amounts include loans held for investment and loans held for sale but exclude loans at fair value, which are included in Trading assets in the
consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8).      

(6)  
    The calculation of return on average common equity equals net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of
average common equity. The return on average common equity is a non-generally accepted accounting principle ( non-GAAP ) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and its investors to assess
operating performance.      

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.       
           Introduction.    
        Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global
financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Morgan Stanley, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide
variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley  or
the  Company  mean Morgan Stanley (the  Parent ) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.         
  A description of the clients and principal products and services of each of the Company s business segments is as follows:
            Institutional Securities 
provides investment banking, sales and trading and other services to corporations, governments, financial institutions, and high-to-ultra high net worth clients. Investment banking services comprise capital raising and financial advisory services,
including services relating to the underwriting of debt, equity and other securities as well as advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance. Sales and trading services include sales, financing and
market-making activities in equity securities and fixed income products, including foreign exchange and commodities, as well as prime brokerage services. Other services include corporate lending activities and credit products, investments and
research.             Wealth
Management  provides a comprehensive array of financial services and solutions to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering brokerage and investment advisory services, market-making activities in fixed
income securities, financial and wealth planning services, annuity and insurance products, credit and other lending products, banking and retirement plan services.   
         Investment Management  provides a broad
range of investment strategies and products that span geographies, asset classes, and public and private markets, to a diverse group of clients across institutional and intermediary channels. Institutional clients include defined benefit/defined
contribution pensions, foundations, endowments, government entities, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, third-party fund sponsors and corporations. Individual clients are serviced through intermediaries, including affiliated and
non-affiliated distributors. Strategies and products comprise traditional asset management, including equity, fixed income, liquidity, alternatives and managed futures products as well as merchant banking and real estate investing.   
        The results of operations in the past have been, and in the
future may continue to be, materially affected by competition, risk factors, legislative, legal and regulatory developments, as well as other factors. These factors also may have an adverse impact on the Company s ability to achieve its
strategic objectives. Additionally, the discussion of the Company s results of operations below may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect management s beliefs and expectations, are subject to risks and
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company s future results, see  Forward-Looking Statements  immediately preceding Part I,
Item 1,  Business Competition  and  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A and  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory
Requirements  herein.   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Summary.              Overview of Financial Results.          
    2015 Compared with 2014   .        
         Consolidated Results.    

Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley for the current year was $6,127 million, or $2.90 per diluted common share, compared with $3,467 million, or
$1.60 per diluted common share, a year ago. The current year included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, or $0.29 per diluted common share, compared with $2,226 million, or $1.13 per diluted common share, in the prior year. For a further
discussion of these net discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein. The prior year also included litigation costs related to residential mortgage-backed securities and
credit crisis matters of $3,083 million, or a loss of $1.47 per diluted common share, 2014 compensation actions of approximately $1,137 million (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive
Compensation  herein), or a loss of $0.39 per diluted common share, and a funding valuation adjustment ( FVA ) implementation charge of $468 million, or a loss of $0.17 per diluted common share.      

Business Segments.          

Institutional Securities net revenues of $17,953 million in 2015 increased 6% compared with $16,871 million in 2014, primarily as a result of higher
Sales and trading net revenues, partially offset by lower Other revenues and lower revenues in Investment banking.            

Wealth Management net revenues of $15,100 million in 2015 increased 1% from $14,888 million in 2014, primarily as a result of higher net interest
income and asset management revenues, partially offset by lower transactional revenues.            

Investment Management net revenues of $2,315 million in 2015 decreased 15% from $2,712 million in 2014, primarily reflecting the reversal of
previously accrued carried interest, reduction in revenues attributable to non-controlling interests and markdowns on principal investments.            
   Expenses.          

Compensation and benefits expenses of $16,016 million in 2015 were down 10% from $17,824 million in 2014, primarily due to the 2014 compensation
actions, a decrease in 2015 in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments and carried interest, and a decrease in the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information
and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).            

Non-compensation expenses were $10,644 million in 2015 compared with $12,860 million in 2014, representing a 17% decrease, primarily as a result of
lower legal expenses in the Institutional Securities business segment associated with residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis-related matters.      

Table of Contents  

    Return on Average Common Equity.    

The return on average common equity was 8.5% in 2015, or 7.8% excluding DVA, and 7.0% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits. For 2014, the
return on average common equity was 4.8%, or 4.1% excluding DVA, and 0.8% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits.            
    2014 Compared with 2013   .        
         Consolidated Results.    

The Company reported net revenues of $34,275 million in 2014, a 5% increase compared with $32,493 million in 2013. Net revenues in 2014 included
positive revenues due to the impact of DVA of $651 million compared with negative revenues of $681 million in 2013. In addition, net revenues in 2014 included a charge of approximately $468 million related to the implementation of FVA (see
 Critical Accounting Policies  herein and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8), which was recorded in the Institutional Securities business segment.      

Business Segments.          

Institutional Securities net revenues of $16,871 million in 2014 increased 9% compared with $15,519 million in 2013, primarily as a result of an
increase in Sales and trading net revenues and Investment banking revenues, partially offset by lower net investment gains.            

Wealth Management net revenues of $14,888 million in 2014 increased 5% from $14,143 million in 2013, primarily as a result of higher Asset
management, distribution and administration fees and an increase in net interest income, partially offset by lower transactional revenues.            

Investment Management net revenues of $2,712 million in 2014 decreased 11% from $3,059 million in 2013. The decrease in net revenues was primarily
related to lower net investment gains, including from investments in the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, and lower carried interest, partially offset by higher management and administration revenues.
               Expenses.    

Return on Average Common
Equity.          

The return on average common equity was 4.8% in 2014, or 4.1% excluding DVA, and 0.8% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits. Return on
average common equity in 2013 was 4.3%, or 4.9% excluding DVA, and 4.3% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits.      

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Information.    
        In addition to the Selected Financial Data presented in Part
II, Item 6, the following financial information is presented below:             Business Segment Financial Information and Other Statistical Data.          

Table of Contents  

Selected Non-Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles ( Non-GAAP ) Financial Information.             From time to time, the Company may disclose certain  non-GAAP financial measures  in the course of its earnings releases, earnings conference calls, financial presentations and otherwise. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) defines a  non-GAAP financial measure  as a numerical measure of historical or future financial performance, financial positions, or cash flows that excludes, or includes, amounts
or is subject to adjustments that effectively exclude, or include, amounts from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( U.S. GAAP ).
Non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide them with further transparency about, or as an alternative method for assessing, the Company s financial condition,
operating results or prospective regulatory capital requirements. These measures are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, U.S. GAAP and may be different from or inconsistent with non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Whenever
the Company refers to a non-GAAP financial measure, the Company will also generally define it or present the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, along with a reconciliation of the
differences between the non-GAAP financial measure and the U.S. GAAP financial measure.   

Table of Contents  

    Reconciliation of Financial Measures from a Non-GAAP to a U.S. GAAP Basis.
         
          Average common equity, return
on average common equity, average tangible common equity, return on average tangible common equity and tangible book value per common share are all non-GAAP financial measures the Company considers to be useful to the Company and investors to assess
capital adequacy and to allow better comparability of period-to-period operating performance. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Tangible Equity  herein.   
         Non-GAAP Financial Measures.    

Table of Contents  

EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa.      DVA Debt valuation adjustment
represents the change in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings resulting from the fluctuation in its credit spreads and other credit factors.   
  N/M Not Meaningful.   

(1)  
    The Institutional Securities business segment s net income applicable to noncontrolling interests was $133 million, $109 million and $278
million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Wealth Management business segment s net income applicable to noncontrolling interests was $221 million in 2013. The Investment Management business segment s net income applicable to
noncontrolling interests was $19 million, $91 million and $182 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.      

(2)  
    Pre-tax profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess
operating performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.      

(3)  
    The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company s Required Capital framework, an internal
capital adequacy measure (see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Required Capital  herein). The calculation of each business segment s return on average common equity equals net income applicable to
Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of each business segment s average common equity. The effective tax rates used in the computation of each business segment s return on average common equity were determined on a
separate legal entity basis. Average common equity and the return on average common equity for each business segment are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers to be useful measures to the Company and investors to assess capital
adequacy and to allow better comparability of period-to-period operating performance, respectively.      

(4)  
    The calculation of return on average common equity equals consolidated net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a
percentage of average common equity. To determine the return on average common equity, excluding DVA, and excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits, both the numerator and denominator were adjusted to exclude those items. Average common equity,
the return on average common equity, and average common equity and the return on average common equity, both excluding DVA, and excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers useful for
investors to assess capital adequacy and to allow better comparability of period-to-period operating performance.      

(5)  
    For a discussion regarding the geographic methodology for net revenues, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

(6)  
    For a discussion of Global Liquidity Reserve, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Risk Management Framework Global
Liquidity Reserve  herein.      

(7)  
    For a discussion of the Company s methods for calculating its risk-based capital ratios, see  Liquidity and Capital
Resources Regulatory Requirements  herein.      

(8)  
    See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on the Tier 1 leverage ratio.      

(9)  
    Amounts exclude the Investment Management business segment s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority
stake and assets for which fees are not generated. For 2015, amounts include $4.6 billion of inflows related to the transfer of certain portfolio managers and their portfolios from the Wealth Management business segment to the Investment Management
business segment.      

(10)  
    For a discussion of the Company s net discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax
Matters  herein.      

Table of Contents  

(13)  
    The calculation of return on average tangible common equity equals net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage
of average tangible common equity. To determine the return on average tangible common equity, excluding DVA, and excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits, both the numerator and the denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA and the
impact of net discrete tax benefits. The impact of DVA was 0.8%, 0.9% and (0.8)% in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The impact of net discrete tax benefits was 0.9%, 3.9% and 0.8% in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Return on Equity Target.    
        The Company is aiming to improve its returns to shareholders,
and has established a target of achieving a 9% to 11% return on average common equity excluding DVA ( Return on Equity ) by 2017, subject to the successful execution of its strategic objectives.   
        The Company plans to progress toward achieving its Return on
Equity target through the following key elements of its strategy:         

Revenue and profitability growth:      

Wealth Management pre-tax margin improvement to approximately 23% to 25% through net interest income growth via continued high quality lending,
expense efficiency and business growth;      

Continued strength in Investment Banking and Equity Sales and Trading results;      

Steady performance in Investment Management;      

Expense efficiency:      

Achieve an expense efficiency target ratio excluding DVA of 74%, assuming a flat revenue environment (not including any outsized litigation expense
or penalties);      

Sufficient capital:      

Continuing to right-size the Fixed Income and Commodities Sales and Trading business from an operational and capital standpoint; and

Increasing capital returns to shareholders, subject to regulatory approval.      
        The Company s Return on Equity target and its related
strategies, goals and targets are forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by many factors including, among other things: macroeconomic and market conditions; legislative and regulatory developments; industry trading and investment
banking volumes; equity market levels; interest rate environment; legal expenses; capital levels; and discrete tax items. Given the uncertainties surrounding these and other factors, there are significant risks that the Company s Return on
Equity target and its related strategies and targets may not be realized. Actual results may differ from goals and targets, and the differences may be material and adverse. Accordingly, the Company cautions that undue reliance should not be placed
on any of these forward-looking statements. See  Forward-Looking Statements  immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A, for additional information regarding these forward-looking
statements.            Return on Equity, excluding DVA, and
pre-tax margin are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers to be useful measures to the Company s investors to assess operating performance. The Company s expense efficiency ratio, excluding DVA, represents total
non-interest expenses as a percentage of net revenues, excluding DVA. For 2015, the Company s expense efficiency ratio was 77%, which was calculated as non-interest expenses of $26,660 million divided by net revenues of $34,537 million, which
excludes the positive impact of $618 million from DVA. The expense efficiency ratio, excluding DVA, is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers useful for investors to assess operating performance.   
         Global Market and Economic Conditions.    
        During the first half of 2015, global growth was supported by
a rebound in the U.S. and firmer growth in the euro zone and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) economies, partially offset by sluggishness in major emerging market economies. During the second half of 2015, global growth slowed as a result of
the continued sluggishness of emerging market economies, declines   

Table of Contents  

in energy prices and the slowdown of China s economic growth. Global real gross domestic product growth decelerated in 2015 from 2014. Growth in emerging market economies slowed for a fourth
straight year, while growth in developed market economies was steady but sluggish. Notable trends during the year included falling oil and other commodity prices, an appreciating U.S. dollar weighing on global trade flows and increasing policy
challenges in a number of major emerging market economies, most notably China. The U.S. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) announced a rate increase in December 2015 based on cumulative labor market
progress and rising confidence in achieving its inflation target. However, with Europe and Japan still struggling and China decelerating, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the People s Bank of China acted to continue their
targeted monetary policy easing measures. Subsequent to December 31, 2015, the Bank of Japan announced a program of  Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with a Negative Interest Rate  that introduced a three tier policy rate system for
bank reserves with a low rate of (0.1)%.       
        Business Segments.          
  Substantially all of the Company s operating revenues and operating expenses are directly attributable to its business segments.
Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.            As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company
includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to its consolidated results.         
    Net Revenues.           
   Trading .    Trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments
in which the Company acts as a market maker as well as gains and losses on the Company s related positions and other positions carried at fair value. Trading revenues include the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and
derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company s positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred
compensation plans and other positions carried at fair value. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans
carried at fair value and dividends from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to positions carried at fair value. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded
separately in Commissions and fees. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them, and fees for related services are recorded in Commissions and fees.            The Company often invests in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge its obligations
under its deferred compensation plans. Changes in the value of such investments are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits.
Compensation expense is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted, adjusted for upward and downward changes in fair value of the referenced investment, and is recognized ratably over the prescribed vesting period for the award.
Generally, changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in fair value of the referenced investment will be offset by changes in fair value of the investments made by the Company. However, there may be a timing difference between the
immediate revenue recognition of gains and losses on the Company s investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.   
        As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or
otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and to provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others,
customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities across all of its trading businesses that include, but are not limited to:
(i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to, customer demand to buy or sell and depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position to hold those positions for a period of time;
(ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining and rebalancing
inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other
activities to   

Table of Contents  

provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Although not included in Trading revenues, Interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities, as debt securities held by the
Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.         
   Investments .    The Company s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation, or as discussed
above, hedging purposes, and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic
and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales
and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company s holdings, as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Typically, there are no fee revenues from
these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, which include investments made in connection with
certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of
time that the Company is clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.
            Commissions and
Fees .    Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds,
futures, insurance products and options.             Asset
Management, Distribution and Administration Fees .    Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration,
performance-based fees relating to certain funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.         
  Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Wealth Management business segment also include revenues from individual and
institutional investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Wealth Management business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average
daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.         
  Asset management fees in the Investment Management business segment arise from investment management services the Company provides to
investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees in the
Investment Management business segment are earned on certain products as a percentage of appreciation earned by those products and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and
are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.         
   Net Interest .    Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and
liabilities, including Trading assets and Trading liabilities; Investment securities, which include available for sale ( AFS ) securities and held to maturity ( HTM ) securities; Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements
to resell; Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase; Loans; Deposits; Other short-term borrowings; Long-term borrowings; trading strategies; customer activity in the prime brokerage business; and the prevailing level, term structure
and volatility of interest rates.              Net
Revenues by Segment.               Institutional
Securities .    Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.   
        Equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net
revenues are composed of Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest income (expense). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these
net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions   

Table of Contents  

relating to trading are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an
assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company s positions, and other related
expenses. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments.         
  In addition to sales and trading net revenues discussed above, sales and trading net revenues also include other trading revenues,
consisting of costs related to liquidity held ( negative carry ), gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the long-term borrowings and certain activities associated with the corporate lending activities.   
         Wealth Management .    Net revenues
are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues.            Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Trading, and Commissions and fees. Investment banking revenues include revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including
initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments, in which the Company acts as principal, gains and losses on the
Company s inventory positions, which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions, and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Revenues from Commissions and fees primarily arise from agency
transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.         
  Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees, and referral fees related to the bank deposit
program.            Net interest income includes interest
related to the bank deposit program, interest on AFS securities and HTM securities, interest on lending activities and other net interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities. Net
interest is driven by securities-based lending, mortgage lending, margin loans, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions and bank deposit program activity.   
        Other revenues include revenues from the sale of AFS
securities, customer account services fees and other miscellaneous revenues.             Investment Management .    The Investment Management business segment generates investment banking revenues primarily from the acquisition of investments in mature real estate
and merchant banking funds. Investments revenue primarily consists of real estate and private equity investments that generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally subject to sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the
investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate materially over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.   
        For information about the composition of Sales and trading,
Investment and Asset management revenues, see  Net Revenues  herein.              Compensation Expense  .            Compensation and benefits expense includes accruals for base salaries and fixed allowances, formulaic programs, discretionary incentive compensation, amortization of deferred cash and equity awards,
changes in fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments, severance costs, and other items such as health and welfare benefits. The factors that drive compensation for the Company s employees vary from quarter to quarter,
segment to segment and within a segment. For certain revenue-producing employees in the Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, their compensation is largely paid on the basis of formulaic payouts that link employee
compensation to revenues. Compensation for certain employees, including revenue-producing employees in the Institutional Securities business segment, may also include incentive compensation that is determined following the assessment of the Company,
business unit and individual performance. Compensation for the Company s remaining employees is largely fixed in nature ( e.g. , base salary, benefits, etc.).   

Table of Contents  

    INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION    

N/M Not Meaningful.   

Table of Contents  

    Investment Banking.    
         Investment Banking Revenues.    
     
           Investment Banking
Volumes.          

(1)  
    Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 15, 2016. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of
the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a
given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.      

(2)  
    Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more. Announced mergers and acquisitions exclude terminated transactions.

(3)  
    Amounts include Rule 144A issuances and registered public offerings of common stock and convertible securities and rights offerings.

(4)  
    Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and taxable municipal debt. Amounts include publicly
registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances.                2015 Compared with 2014.             Investment banking revenues of $5,008 million in 2015 decreased 4% from the prior year due to lower underwriting revenues, partially offset by higher advisory revenues.   

Advisory revenues increased led primarily by merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions ( M A ) in the Americas. Global
industry-wide announced M A volume activity for 2015 increased significantly compared with 2014.            

Equity underwriting revenues decreased driven by decreases in initial public offering volumes. Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased
primarily driven by lower non-investment grade bond and loan fees.                2014 Compared with 2013.             Investment banking revenues of $5,203 million in 2014 increased 19% from the prior year driven by increases across both underwriting and advisory revenues.   

Advisory revenues from M A increased due to increased deal activity in the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions. Industry-wide announced M A
volume activity for 2014 increased across all regions compared with 2013, primarily driven by cross-border activity.            

Equity underwriting revenues increased driven by increased activity with clients across all regions. Fixed income underwriting revenues increased
driven by increased investment grade volumes.      

Table of Contents  

    Sales and Trading Net Revenues.    
         Sales and Trading Net Revenues.    
     
           Sales and Trading Net
Revenues by Business.          
     
  N/M Not Meaningful.   

(1)  
    Results in 2014 included a charge of $468 million related to the implementation of FVA (Equity: $2 million; Fixed income and commodities: $466
million).                Sales and Trading Net Revenues,
Excluding DVA and FVA.             Sales and trading net
revenues, including equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues that exclude the impact of DVA, or exclude the impact of DVA and the initial implementation of FVA, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers
useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance.         
     
  N/M Not Meaningful.   

Table of Contents  

    2015 Compared with 2014.    
        Total sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of
DVA and the initial implementation of FVA, of $11,832 million in 2015 increased 12% from the prior year due to higher equity, fixed income and commodities revenues.   
          Equity   .         

Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, increased driven by strong results in prime
brokerage and derivatives products. Higher client balances primarily drove the increase in prime brokerage results, while the improved results in derivatives reflected increased client activity and gains on inventory.      
          Fixed Income and Commodities.       

Excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues increased as higher commodity
net revenues were partially offset by lower fixed income product results.            

Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, decreased due to lower results in credit and
securitized products from wider credit spread environment which were partially offset by higher revenues in interest rates and foreign exchange products from higher client activity.      

Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, increased primarily reflecting higher revenues from the global
oil merchanting business, which was sold on November 1, 2015 (see  Investments, Other Revenues, Non-interest Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other Items 2015 Compared with 2014 Dispositions  herein). The
increase was partially offset by credit driven losses and the absence of revenues from TransMontaigne Inc., which was sold on July 1, 2014 (see  Investments, Other Revenues, Non-interest Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other
Items 2014 Compared with 2013 Dispositions  herein).                2014 Compared with 2013.             Total sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, of $10,561 million in 2014 increased 1% from the prior year due to higher equity and fixed income and
commodities revenues partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading net revenues.              Equity.                  

Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA of $2 million, increased primarily due to higher
revenues in the prime brokerage business driven by higher client balances partially offset by a decrease in derivatives revenues, reflecting unfavorable volatility movement.                 Fixed Income and Commodities.           

Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues in 2014 included a charge of $466 million related to the implementation of FVA.
Excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues increased as higher commodity net revenues were partially offset by lower fixed income product results.

Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, decreased as higher results in interest rate products
were offset by declines in credit products, which reflected an unfavorable market environment.            

Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, increased reflecting higher levels of client demand for
structured transactions and volatility in natural gas and power partly offset by lower revenues in the oil related businesses in part attributable to TransMontaigne Inc., which was sold on July 1, 2014

Table of Contents  

(see  Investments, Other Revenues, Non-interest Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other Items 2014 Compared with 2013 Dispositions  herein).
               Investments, Other Revenues, Non-interest
Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other Items.          
   2015 Compared with 2014.          
    Investments.           

Net investment gains of $274 million in 2015 increased 14% from the prior year driven by gains on business related investments.
                Other.

Other revenues of $221 million in 2015 decreased 68% from the prior year primarily due to the absence of gains realized on certain assets sold in
2014 (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8) and markdowns and provisions on loans held for sale and held for investment, respectively.                 Non-interest Expenses.     
        Non-interest expenses of $13,282 million in 2015 decreased
22% from the prior year driven by a 25% reduction in Non-compensation expenses and a 17% reduction in Compensation and benefits expenses.         

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation
plan referenced investments, and a decrease in the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).

Non-compensation expenses decreased primarily due to lower litigation expenses.      
         Income Tax Items.    
        In 2015, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit
from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $564 million. These net discrete tax benefits were primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify
the Company s legal entity organization in the U.K.         
   Dispositions.          
  On November 1, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its global oil merchanting unit of the commodities division to Castleton
Commodities International LLC. The loss on sale of approximately $71 million was recognized in Other revenues.             2014 Compared with 2013.               Investments.                

Net investment gains of $240 million in 2014 decreased 66% from the prior year reflecting a gain recorded in 2013 related to the disposition of an
investment in an insurance broker, and lower gains on principal investments and investments associated with the deferred compensation and co-investment plans in 2014.                 Other.           

Other revenues of $684 million remained unchanged. The results in 2014 included lower income from the Company s 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. ( MUMSS ) compared with 2013 (see  Other Items Japanese Securities Joint Venture  herein and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in

Table of Contents  

Item 8). In 2014, Other revenues also included gains realized on certain assets sold (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).      
          Non-interest Expenses.       
             Non-interest expenses of $16,929 million
in 2014 increased 16% from the prior year primarily due to higher legal expenses and higher compensation expenses.         

Compensation and benefits expenses increased primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions and an increase in base salaries and fixed allowances
partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).

Non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to higher legal expenses related to certain legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and
credit crisis-related matters (see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Legal  herein and  Contingencies Legal  in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
               Income Tax Items.    
        In 2014, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit
from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $839 million. This included net discrete tax benefits of: $612 million principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a
multi-year tax authority examination, and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. In addition, the Company s Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the
business segment was impacted by approximately $900 million of tax provision as a result of non-deductible expenses related to litigation and regulatory matters.   
        In 2013, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit
from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $407 million. This included net discrete tax benefits of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with new information regarding the status of a multi-year
tax authority examination; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million that is attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit
utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the retroactive effective date of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the  Relief Act ). For a further
discussion of the Relief Act, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein.         
   Dispositions.          
  On July 1, 2014, the Company completed the sale of its ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc., a U.S.-based oil storage, marketing
and transportation company, as well as related physical inventory and the assumption of its obligations under certain terminal storage contracts, to NGL Energy Partners LP. The gain on sale of $112 million is recorded in Other revenues.   
        On March 27, 2014, the Company completed the sale of
Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc., a public storage terminal operator for refined products with two distribution terminals in Canada. The gain on sale was approximately $45 million and is recorded in Other revenues.   
         Other Items.               Japanese Securities Joint Venture.              The Company holds a 40% voting interest and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) holds a 60%
voting interest in MUMSS.   

Table of Contents  

   To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital
level, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level, whereas the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to
factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above.   
        See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 for further information.         
    Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.                     Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests primarily relate to MUFG interest in Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.,
Ltd.   

Table of Contents  

    WEALTH MANAGEMENT    
         INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION    

N/M Not Meaningful.   

Table of Contents  

    Transactional Revenues.    
         Transactional Revenues.    
     
           2015 Compared with 2014.    
        Transactional revenues of $3,335 million in 2015 decreased
14% from the prior year due to lower revenues in each of Trading, Investment banking and Commissions and fees.         

Investment banking revenues decreased primarily due to lower revenues from the distribution of underwritten offerings.      

Trading revenues decreased primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and lower
revenues from fixed income products.            

Commissions and fees decreased primarily due to lower revenues from equity, mutual fund and annuity products partially offset by higher revenues
from alternatives asset classes.                2014
Compared with 2013.             Transactional revenues of
$3,875 million in 2014 decreased 10% from the prior year due to lower revenues in each of Trading, Investment banking and Commissions and fees.         

Investment banking revenues decreased primarily due to lower levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds partially offset by higher revenues
from structured products.            

Trading revenues decreased primarily as a result of lower gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans
and lower revenues from fixed income products.            

Commissions and fees revenues decreased primarily due to lower equity, insurance and mutual fund activity.      
         Net Revenues.              2015 Compared with 2014.          
    Asset Management.           

Asset management, distribution and administration fees of $8,536 million in 2015 increased 2% from the prior year primarily due to higher fee-based
revenues that resulted from positive flows and higher average market values over 2015 as compared with the average market values during 2014 (see  Statistical Data  herein). The increase in fee-based revenues was partially offset by lower
referral fees from the bank deposit program, reflecting the completion of the transfer of the deposits from Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) to the Company (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
                Net Interest.

Net interest of $2,956 million in 2015 increased 26% from the prior year primarily due to higher balances in the bank deposit program and growth in
loans and lending commitments.      

Table of Contents  

     Other.     

Other revenues of $255 million in 2015 decreased 20% from the prior year primarily due to a $40 million gain on sale of a retail property space in
the prior year and an increase in the allowance for credit losses in 2015.                Non-interest Expenses.                Non-interest expenses of $11,768 million in 2015 decreased 1% from the prior year primarily due to lower Compensation and benefit expenses partially offset by higher Non-compensation expenses.   

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation
plan referenced investments and a decrease in the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).

Non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to an increase in Professional services, resulting from increased consulting and legal fees
partially offset by a provision related to a rescission offer in the prior year. Other expenses in 2014 included $50 million related to a rescission offer to Wealth Management clients who may not have received a prospectus for certain securities
transactions, for which delivery of a prospectus was required.                2014 Compared with 2013.              Net Revenues.               Asset Management.           

Asset management, distribution and administration fees of $8,345 million in 2014 increased 10% from the prior year primarily due to higher fee-based
revenues partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi-affiliated depository institutions declined to $81 million in 2014 from $240 million in 2013, reflecting
the transfer of deposits to the Company from Citi.                 Net Interest.           

Net interest of $2,339 million in 2014 increased 25% from the prior year primarily due to higher lending balances and growth in loans and lending
commitments in Portfolio Loan Account ( PLA ) securities-based lending products.            
    Other.           

Other revenues of $320 million in 2014 decreased 18% from the prior year primarily as a result of a gain on sale of the U.K. operation of the Global
Stock Plan Services business in 2013 and lower account fees. The results for Other revenues in 2014 included a $40 million gain on sale of a retail property space.                Non-interest Expenses.          
  Non-interest expenses of $11,903 million in 2014 increased 3% from the prior year primarily due to higher Compensation and benefit
expenses partially offset by lower Non-compensation expenses.         

Compensation and benefits expenses increased primarily due to a higher formulaic payout to Wealth Management representatives linked to higher net
revenues and an increase in base salaries.            

Non-compensation expenses decreased in 2014 primarily driven by technology write-offs and an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets
(management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in 2013, lower intangible amortization and a lower Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) assessment on deposits partially offset by a provision in 2014 related
to a rescission offer to Wealth Management clients.      

Table of Contents  

    Income Tax Items.    
        In 2014, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit
from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $1,390 million due to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of an internal restructuring to simplify the Company s legal entity organization. For a further discussion of these net
discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein.         
   Statistical Data.          
   Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in billions, except where noted).    

(1)  
    Fee-based client assets represent the amount of assets in client accounts where the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those
assets.      

(2)  
    Client liabilities include securities-based and tailored lending, home loans and margin lending.      

(3)  
    Balances in the bank deposit program included deposits held by Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank,
National Association ( MSPBNA ) (collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ) of $149 billion and $128 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, with the remainder at December 31, 2014 held at
Citi-affiliated FDIC insured depositories. At June 30, 2015, the transfer of deposits from Citi to the Company was completed. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion of the Company s
customer deposits previously held by Citi.      

(4)  
    Annual revenues per representative equal the Wealth Management business segment s annual revenues divided by the average representative
headcount.      

(5)  
    Client assets per representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end representative headcount.      

(6)  
    Fee-based asset flows include net new fee-based assets, net account transfers, dividends, interest and client fees and exclude cash
management-related activity.            
  Total client liability balances increased to $64 billion at December 31, 2015 from $51 billion at December 31, 2014, primarily
due to growth in PLA and Liquidity Access Line ( LAL ) securities-based lending products and residential real estate loans. The loans and lending commitments in the Wealth Management business segment continued to grow in 2015, and the
Company expects this trend to continue. See  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures U.S. Bank Subsidiaries Lending Activities  herein and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit
Risk Lending Activities  in Item 7A.         
    Fee-Based Client Assets.           
  Wealth Management earns fees based on a contractual percentage of fee-based client assets related to certain account types that are
offered to Wealth Management clients. These fees, which the Company records in the Asset management, distribution and administrative fees line on its income statement, are earned based on the client assets in the specific account types in which the
client participates and are generally not driven by asset class. For most account types, fees are billed in the first month of each quarter based on the related client assets as of the end of the prior quarter. Across the account types, the fees
will vary based on both the distinct services provided within each account type and on the level of household assets under supervision in Wealth Management.   

Table of Contents  

    Fee-Based Client Assets Activity and Average Fee Rate by Account Type.    

bps Basis points.   

(2)  
    Includes non-custody account values reflecting prior quarter-end balances due to a lag in the reporting of asset values by third-party custodians.

(3)  
    Effective in 2013, client assets include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the platform conversion between
the Company and Citi.            

Inflows  include new accounts, account transfers, deposits, dividends and interest.      

Outflows  include closed or terminated accounts, account transfers, withdrawals and client fees.      

Market impact  includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments.      

Table of Contents  

Separately managed accounts  Accounts by which third-party asset managers are engaged to manage clients  assets with investment
decisions made by the asset manager. One third-party asset manager strategy can be held per account.            

Unified managed accounts  Accounts that provide the client with the ability to combine separately managed accounts, mutual funds and
exchange traded funds all in one aggregate account. Unified managed accounts can be client-directed, financial advisor-directed or Company-directed (with  directed  referring to the investment direction or decision/discretion/power of
attorney).            

Mutual fund advisory  Accounts that give the client the ability to systematically allocate assets across a wide range of mutual funds.
Investment decisions are made by the client.            

Representative as advisor  Accounts where the investment decisions must be approved by the client and the financial advisor must obtain
approval each time a change is made to the account or its investments.            

Representative as portfolio manager  Accounts where a financial advisor has discretion (contractually approved by the client) to make
ongoing investment decisions without the client s approval for each individual change.            

Cash management  Accounts where the financial advisor provides discretionary cash management services to institutional clients whereby
securities or proceeds are invested and reinvested in accordance with the client s investment criteria. Generally, the portfolio will be invested in short-term fixed income and cash equivalent investments.      

Table of Contents  

    INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION    
     
        N/M Not Meaningful.   

Table of Contents  

    2015 Compared with 2014.    
         Net Revenues.               Investments.          

Investments of $249 million in 2015 decreased 58% from the prior year reflecting the reversal of previously accrued carried interest associated with
Asia Private Equity and additional net markdowns on principal investments.                 Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.                

Asset management, distribution and administration fees were unchanged from the prior year as the impact of positive net flows was offset by a shift
in the asset class mix from equity and fixed income products to liquidity products, (see  Statistical Data  herein).            
    Other.           

Other revenues of $32 million in 2015 decreased 70% from the prior year due to lower revenues associated with the Company s minority investment
in certain third-party investment managers.            
   Non-interest Expenses.             
  Non-interest expenses of $1,823 million in 2015 decreased 11% from the prior year primarily due to lower Compensation and benefit expenses
partially offset by higher Non-compensation expenses.         

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in deferred compensation associated with
carried interest and a decrease in the level of incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).      

Non-compensation expenses increased primarily due to higher Brokerage and clearing, Professional services, resulting from higher consulting and
legal fees and Information processing and communications expenses.                2014 Compared with 2013.               Trading.           

Trading losses of $19 million in 2014 compared with gains of $41 million in 2013 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated
real estate funds sponsored by the Company.                 Investments.                

Investments of $587 million in 2014 decreased 44% from the prior year primarily related to lower net investment gains, lower carried interest in the
Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and lower gains from investments in the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. 2014 results were also negatively impacted by the deconsolidation in the second
quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.            
    Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.          

Asset management, distribution and administration fees of $2,049 million in 2014 increased 7% from the prior year primarily reflected higher
management and administration revenues as a result of higher average assets under management ( AUM ), (see  Statistical Data  herein).      
          Other.     

Other revenues of $106 million in 2014 increased from $32 million in 2013 primarily due to higher revenues associated with the Company s
minority investment in certain third-party investment managers and a $17 million gain on sale of a retail property space.      

Table of Contents  

    Non-interest Expenses.       
        Non-interest expenses of $2,048 million were essentially
unchanged from 2013.         

Compensation and benefits expenses increased due to the 2014 compensation actions and increases in salaries partially offset by a decrease in the
fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).      

Non-compensation expenses decreased primarily due to an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated
with alternative investments funds in 2013 and the result of lower consumption taxes in the European Union.            
   Other Items.          
    Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.                     Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds
sponsored by the Company. Investment gains (losses) associated with nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in these consolidated funds were $14 million, $104 million and $151 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Nonredeemable noncontrolling
interests decreased in 2015 primarily due to the deconsolidation of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company in the second quarter 2015.   
         Statistical Data.    
         Assets Under Management or Supervision and Average Fee
Rate by Asset Class.          

Table of Contents  

bps Basis points.   

(1)  
    Includes $4.6 billion related to the transfer of certain equity portfolio managers and their portfolios from the Wealth Management business segment
to the Investment Management business segment.      

(2)  
    Assets under management or supervision for Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing and Alternatives reflect the basis on which management fees
are earned. This calculation excludes AUM where no management fees are earned or where the fair value of these assets, including lending commitments, differs from the basis on which management fees are earned. Including these assets, AUM at
December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 for Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing were $44 billion and $42 billion, respectively, and for Alternatives were $39 billion and $39 billion, respectively.      

Inflows  represent investments or commitments from new and existing clients in new or existing investment products, including
reinvestments of client dividends and increases in invested capital. Excludes the impact of exchanges occurring whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class.      

Outflows  represent redemptions from clients  funds, transition of funds from the committed capital period to the invested capital
period and decreases in invested capital. Excludes the impact of exchanges occurring whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class.      

Table of Contents  

Distributions  represent decreases in invested capital due to returns of capital after the investment period of a fund. It also includes
fund dividends for which the client has not elected to reinvest.            

Market impact  includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments. This excludes any funds where market impact
does not impact management fees.            

Foreign currency impact  reflects foreign currency changes for non-U.S. dollar denominated funds.      

Average fee rate  based on asset management and administration fees, net of waivers. It excludes performance-based fees and other
non-management fees. For certain non-U.S. funds, it includes the portion of advisory fees that the advisor collects on behalf of third-party distributors. The payment of those fees to the distributor is included in Non-compensation expenses in the
consolidated statements of income.            

Alternatives asset class  includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds
of real estate funds.            

Shares of minority stake assets  represent the Investment Management business segment s proportional share of assets managed by
entities in which it owns a minority stake.      

Table of Contents  

      Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures.    
         Legal.             The Company incurred legal expenses of $563 million in 2015, $3,364 million in 2014 and $1,941 million in 2013.
Legal expenses are included in Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income.            Legal expenses incurred in 2015 were primarily related to increases in reserves for the settlement of a credit default swap antitrust litigation matter and for legacy residential mortgage-backed
securities matters. The legal expenses incurred in 2014 and 2013 were principally due to reserve additions and settlements related to legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis related matters, including in 2014 the
Company s $2,600 million agreement with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division, which was reached on February 25, 2015 and finalized on February 10, 2016 (see  Contingencies Legal  in Note 12 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8).         
  The Company s future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period given the current environment regarding government
investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Company.             U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.             The Company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The lending activities in
the Institutional Securities business segment include corporate lending activities, in which the Company provides loans or lending commitments to certain corporate clients, and other lending activities. The lending activities in the Wealth
Management business segment primarily include securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities and also include residential real estate loans. The Company expects its lending activities to
continue to grow through further penetration of the Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments  client base. For a further discussion of credit risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk Credit Risk  in Item 7A. Also see Notes 7 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about loans and lending commitments, respectively.   
         U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  Supplemental Financial
Information Excluding Transactions with Affiliated Entities.          

(1)  
    The U.S. Bank Subsidiaries investment securities portfolio includes AFS investment securities of $53.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and $57.2
billion at December 31, 2014. The remaining balance represents HTM investment securities.      

(2)  
    Other loans primarily include tailored lending.      

(3)  
    Other lending includes activities related to commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the
secondary market, financing extended to equities and commodities customers, and loans to municipalities.      

Table of Contents  

    Income Tax Matters.    
        The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 25.9%
for 2015. Included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the legal entity
organization in the U.K. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 would have been 32.5%, which is reflective of the geographic mix of earnings.   
        The effective tax rate from continuing operations was a
benefit of 2.5% for 2014. Included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $2,226 million. These net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability, previously established as part
of the acquisition of Smith Barney in 2009 through a charge to Additional paid-in capital, as a result of the legal entity restructuring that included a change in tax status of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC from a partnership to a
corporation; $609 million principally associated with the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; and $237 million primarily associated with the
repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 would have been 59.5%, which is primarily attributable to
approximately $900 million of tax provision from non-deductible expenses for litigation and regulatory matters.         
  The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 19.8% for 2013. Included in this rate were net discrete tax benefits of $407
million. These net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; $92 million related to the
establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings
from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the enactment of the Relief Act, which retroactively extended a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign
subsidiaries earned outside the U.S. until such income is repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2013 would have been 28.7%, which is reflective of the
geographic mix of earnings.             Discretionary Incentive
Compensation.             On December 1, 2014, the
Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee ( CMDS Committee ) of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) approved an approach for awards of discretionary incentive compensation for the 2014
performance year to be granted in 2015 that would reduce the average deferral of such awards to an approximate baseline of 50%. Additionally, the CMDS Committee approved the acceleration of vesting for certain outstanding deferred cash-based
incentive compensation awards. The deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards subject to accelerated vesting will be distributed on their regularly scheduled future distribution dates and will continue to be subject to cancellation and
clawback provisions. The following table presents the increase in Compensation and benefits expense for the Company and each of the business segments as a result of these actions in 2014 ( 2014 compensation actions ).   
         2014 Compensation and Benefits Expense.    

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Amount represents compensation and benefits expense at pre-adjustment accrual levels ( i.e. , at an approximate average baseline 74% deferral
rate and with no acceleration of cash-based award vesting that was utilized for the first three quarters of 2014).      

(2)  
    Amounts reflect reduction in deferral level from an approximate average baseline of 74% to an approximate average baseline of 50%.

(3)  
    Amounts represent acceleration of vesting for certain cash-based awards.      

Table of Contents  

      Accounting Development Updates.    
        Thus far in 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(the  FASB ) issued the following accounting update, which applies to the Company:         

Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted for a specific component in the accounting standard, in which the Company would present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in
the instrument-specific credit risk if the Company has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments ( i.e. , DVA). This accounting update is currently being evaluated to
determine the potential impact of adoption.               During 2015 and 2014, the FASB issued the following accounting updates, which apply to the Company, but they are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements:

Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments.            

Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.      

Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis.            

Determining Whether the Host Contract in a Hybrid Financial Instrument Issued in the Form of a Share Is More Akin to Debt or to Equity.

Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern.      

Measuring the Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities of a Consolidated Collateralized Financing Entity.      

Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service
Period.               During 2014, the FASB
also issued the following accounting update:         

Revenue from Contracts with Customers. In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update to clarify the principles of revenue recognition, to
develop a common revenue recognition standard across all industries for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and to provide enhanced disclosures for users of the financial statements. The core principle of this guidance is that
an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. On April 1,
2015, the FASB voted to propose a deferral of the effective date of this accounting update by one year to January 1, 2018. Additionally, the FASB permits an entity to adopt this accounting update early but not before the original effective
date, beginning January 1, 2017. This accounting update is currently being evaluated to determine the potential impact of adoption.      

Table of Contents  

      Critical Accounting Policies.    
        The Company s consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to
the consolidated financial statements in Item 8), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.         
   Fair Value.          
    Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.                     A significant number of the Company s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes
estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include, but are not limited to:         

Trading assets and Trading liabilities;            

AFS securities;            

Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;      

Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell;      

Certain Deposits, primarily structured certificates of deposits;            

Certain Short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;      

Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;      

Certain Other secured financings; and            

Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.      
        Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.         
  In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that
maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses
quoted prices in active markets, Level 2 uses valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable
inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from Level 1 to
Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related
valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements, see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   
        The Company incorporates FVA into the fair value measurements
of OTC uncollateralized or partially collateralized derivatives and in collateralized derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the collateral received.            For a further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Company, see Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements in Item 8.   

Table of Contents  

     Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis.
             At December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, certain of the Company s assets and liabilities were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, intangible assets, other
assets and other liabilities, and accrued expenses. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.   
        For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the
observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.            See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.   
          Fair Value Control Processes.       
             The Company employs control processes to
validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the
event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable.   
        See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company s valuation policies, processes and procedures.             Goodwill and Intangible Assets.               Goodwill.              The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit
level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all the activities of a reporting
unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. For both the annual and interim tests, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events
or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.         
  If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a
reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Goodwill
impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the
estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more
likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required.            The estimated fair value of the reporting units is derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair value is
generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate price-to-book and price-to-earnings multiples of certain comparable companies. At each annual goodwill impairment testing date, each of the
Company s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess of its carrying value.   

Table of Contents  

     Intangible Assets.              Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful life and are reviewed for impairment on
an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is
not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.   
        For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an
impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that
asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.            See Notes 2, 3 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.             Legal and Regulatory Contingencies.    
        In the normal course of business, the Company has been named,
from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.   
        Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include
claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.   
        The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other
reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings
sponsored, underwritten or sold by the Company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.   
        Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are
generally determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that
loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal
proceedings and investigations, the Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings and investigations, the Company cannot
reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement
or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other
relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional range of loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or
investigation.            Significant judgment is required
in deciding when and if to make these accruals and the actual cost of a legal claim or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals.   
        See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.         
   Income Taxes.          
  The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign
jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different   

Table of Contents  

interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws
when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be
settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years  examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits
related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available
or when an event occurs requiring a change.            The
Company s provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Current income taxes approximate taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. The Company s deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the applicable enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The Company s
deferred tax balances also include deferred assets related to tax attribute carryforwards, such as net operating losses and tax credits that will be realized through reduction of future tax liabilities and, in some cases, are subject to expiration
if not utilized within certain periods. The Company performs regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management s estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income and incorporate
various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to tax attribute carryforwards before they expire. Once the deferred tax asset balances have been determined, the Company may record a valuation allowance against the
deferred tax asset balances to reflect the amount of these balances (net of valuation allowance) that the Company estimates it is more likely than not to realize at a future date. Both current and deferred income taxes could reflect adjustments
related to the Company s unrecognized tax benefits.            Significant judgment is required in estimating the consolidated provision for (benefit from) income taxes, current and deferred tax balances (including valuation allowance, if any), accrued interest or
penalties and uncertain tax positions. Revisions in estimates and/or the actual costs of a tax assessment may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any.   
        See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8 for additional information on the Company s significant assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional
information on the Company s tax examinations.   

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity and Capital Resources.    
        The Company s senior management establishes liquidity
and capital policies. Through various risk and control committees, senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity, interest rate
and currency sensitivity of the Company s asset and liability position. The Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee, and other committees and control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and
controlling the impact that the Company s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board s Risk Committee.
            The Balance Sheet.    
        The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size
of its balance sheet on a regular basis. The Company s balance sheet management process includes quarterly planning, business-specific limits, monitoring of business-specific usage versus limits, key metrics and new business impact assessments.
           The Company establishes balance sheet limits at
the consolidated, business segment and business unit levels. The Company monitors balance sheet usage versus limits and reviews variances resulting from business activity or market fluctuations. On a regular basis, the Company reviews current
performance versus limits and assesses the need to re-allocate limits based on business unit needs. The Company also monitors key metrics, including asset and liability size, composition of the balance sheet, limit utilization and capital usage.
            Total Assets for the Company s Business Segments.

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Other assets primarily includes Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets and deferred tax assets.
              A substantial portion of the
Company s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Institutional Securities business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the
Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. Total assets decreased to $787 billion at December 31, 2015 from $802 billion at December 31, 2014. The decrease in total assets was primarily due to reductions in Trading
assets within the Institutional Securities business segment (primarily within Fixed Income and Commodities), partially offset by balance sheet growth related to higher Deposits, which were redeployed into lending activity and excess cash and
liquidity and by an increase in secured funding to support the Equity business within the Institutional Securities business segment.         
  Securities borrowed or securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or securities sold under agreements to
repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).         
   Collateralized Financing Transactions and Average Balances.    
     
          Period-end balances for
Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned at December 31, 2015 were lower than the average balances during 2015. The balances moved in line
with client financing activity and with general movements in firm inventory.            Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed period-end balances at December 31, 2014 were lower than the average balances during 2014 due to a reduction in client
financing activity and an increase in financing balance sheet efficiencies. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned period-end balances at December 31, 2014 were lower than the average balances during 2014 as the
Company s assets decreased.            Securities
financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory
positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans,   

Table of Contents  

collateralized by customer-owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in accordance with regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing
transactions primarily includes payables to the Company s prime brokerage customers. The Company s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company s credit exposure to
customers. Included within securities financing assets were $11 billion and $21 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that
represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.             Liquidity Risk Management Framework.             The primary goal of the Company s Liquidity Risk Management Framework is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed
to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of its business strategies.         
  The following principles guide the Company s Liquidity Risk Management Framework:   

Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities and other planned and contingent outflows;      

Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;      

Source, counterparty, currency, region and term of funding should be diversified; and      

Liquidity Stress Tests should anticipate, and account for, periods of limited access to funding.      
        The core components of the Company s Liquidity Risk
Management are the Required Liquidity Framework, Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve (as defined below), which support its target liquidity profile.   
          Required Liquidity Framework.     
        The Company s Required Liquidity Framework reflects the
amount of liquidity the Company must hold in both normal and stressed environments to ensure that its financial condition and overall soundness is not adversely affected by an inability (or perceived inability) to meet its financial obligations in a
timely manner. The Required Liquidity Framework considers the most constraining liquidity requirement to satisfy all regulatory and internal limits at a consolidated and legal entity level.              Liquidity Stress Tests.     
        The Company uses Liquidity Stress Tests to model liquidity
inflows and outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events of different severity and duration. The methodology, implementation, production
and analysis of the Company s Liquidity Stress Tests are important components of the Required Liquidity Framework.         
  The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following:   

No government support;            

No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;      

Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within the stress horizon;            

Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;            

Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties, certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to credit rating
downgrades;            

Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;

Table of Contents  

Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;            

Drawdowns on lending commitments provided to third parties;      

Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;      

Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets; and      

Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.      
        Liquidity Stress Tests are produced for the Parent and major
operating subsidiaries, as well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company, including a limited number of asset sales in a stressed environment. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that
subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent and that the Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries  liquidity reserves. In addition to
the assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests, the Company takes into consideration the settlement risk related to intraday settlement and clearing of securities and financing activities.   
        At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the
Company maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.         
    Global Liquidity Reserve.           
  The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves ( Global Liquidity Reserve ) to cover daily funding needs and to meet
strategic liquidity targets sized by the Required Liquidity Framework and Liquidity Stress Tests. The size of the Global Liquidity Reserve is actively managed by the Company. The following components are considered in sizing the Global Liquidity
Reserve: unsecured debt maturity profile, balance sheet size and composition, funding needs in a stressed environment inclusive of contingent cash outflows, regional and segment liquidity requirements, regulatory requirements and collateral
requirements. In addition, the Company s Global Liquidity Reserve includes a discretionary surplus based on risk tolerance and is subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events. The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the
Parent and its major operating subsidiaries.         
   Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.    

(1)  
    Non-U.S. sovereign obligations are composed of unencumbered German, French, Dutch, U.K., Brazilian and Japanese government obligations.

Table of Contents  

    Global Liquidity Reserve Managed by Bank and Non-Bank Legal Entities.    

(1)  
    The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.      
           Regulatory Liquidity Framework.             The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ) has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision: the Liquidity Coverage Ratio ( LCR ) and
the Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR ).         
    Liquidity Coverage Ratio.            
        The LCR was developed to ensure banking organizations have
sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net cash outflows arising from significant stress over 30 calendar days. This standard s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banking organizations.
           The final rule to implement the LCR in the U.S.
( U.S. LCR ) applies to the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and each is required to calculate its respective U.S. LCR on each business day. As of January 1, 2015, the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries were required to
maintain a minimum U.S. LCR of 80%. Beginning on January 1, 2016, the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum U.S. LCR of 90%, and this minimum standard will reach the fully phased-in level of 100% beginning on
January 1, 2017. In addition, the Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would require large banking organizations, including the Company, to publicly disclose certain qualitative and quantitative information about their U.S. LCR beginning in
the third quarter of 2016. The Company is compliant with the minimum required U.S. LCR based on current interpretation and continues to evaluate its impact on the Company s liquidity and funding requirements.   
          Net Stable Funding Ratio.       
             The objective of the NSFR is to reduce
funding risk over a one-year horizon by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with sufficiently stable sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress. In October 2014, the Basel Committee finalized
revisions to the NSFR. The U.S. banking regulators are expected to issue a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. The Company continues to evaluate the NSFR and its potential impact on the Company s current liquidity and funding
requirements.             Funding Management.    
        The Company manages its funding in a manner that reduces the
risk of disruption to the Company s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of its liabilities equals
or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.   

Table of Contents  

   The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources
may include the Company s equity capital, long-term debt, securities sold under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ), securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has
active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.         
    Secured Financing.                
  A substantial portion of the Company s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and arises principally from the
Institutional Securities business segment s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in funding these assets with secured financing. The Company s goal is to achieve an optimal
mix of durable secured and unsecured financing. Secured financing investors principally focus on the quality of the eligible collateral posted. Accordingly, the Company actively manages its secured financing book based on the quality of the assets
being funded.            The Company utilizes shorter-term
secured financing only for highly liquid assets and has established longer tenor limits for less liquid asset classes, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption. The Company defines highly liquid assets as
government-issued or government-guaranteed securities with a high degree of fundability and less liquid assets as those that do not meet these criteria. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the weighted average maturity of the
Company s secured financing of less liquid assets was greater than 120 days. To further minimize the refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets, the Company has established concentration limits to diversify its investor base
and reduce the amount of monthly maturities for secured financing of less liquid assets. Furthermore, the Company obtains term secured funding liabilities in excess of less liquid inventory, or  spare capacity,  as an additional risk
mitigant to replace maturing trades in the event that secured financing markets, or its ability to access them, become limited. As a component of the Liquidity Risk Management Framework, the Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity Reserve
against the potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities.            The Company also maintains a pool of liquid and easily fundable securities, which provide a valuable future source of liquidity. With the implementation of U.S. Basel III liquidity standards, the Company
has also incorporated high-quality liquid asset classifications that are consistent with the U.S. LCR definitions into its encumbrance reporting, which further substantiates the demonstrated liquidity characteristics of the unencumbered asset pool
and its ability to readily identify new funding sources for such assets.              Unsecured Financing  .                 The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding. Unencumbered securities and non-security assets are financed with a combination of long-term and short-term debt and deposits.
The Company s unsecured financings include structured borrowings, whose payments and redemption values are based on the performance of certain underlying assets, including equity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities. When
appropriate, the Company may use derivative products to conduct asset and liability management and to make adjustments to its interest rate and structured borrowings risk profile (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
            Deposits.    
        Available funding sources to the Company s bank
subsidiaries include time deposits, money market deposit accounts, demand deposit accounts, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in the Company s
U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are sourced from its retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low-cost funding characteristics. The transfer of deposits previously held by Citi to the Company s depository institutions relating to the
Company s customer accounts was completed on June 30, 2015. During 2015, $8.7 billion of deposits were transferred by Citi to the Company s depository institutions.   

Table of Contents  

    Deposits.          

(2)  
    Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8).      

(3)  
    The Company s deposits were primarily held in the U.S.      
         Short-Term Borrowings.       
        The Company s unsecured Short-term borrowings may
consist of bank loans, bank notes, commercial paper and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately $2,173 million and $2,261 million,
respectively, in Short-term borrowings.             Long-Term
Borrowings.                The Company believes that
accessing debt investors through multiple distribution channels helps provide consistent access to the unsecured markets. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments.
Long-term borrowings are generally managed to achieve staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients across regions, currencies and product
types. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, its credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.   
        The Company may engage in various transactions in the credit
markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.         
   Long-term Borrowings by Maturity Profile.          
          During 2015, the Company
issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $34.2 billion. In connection with these note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates. The weighted average maturity of the
Company s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 6.1 years at December 31, 2015. During 2015, approximately $27.3 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or were retired. Subsequent to
December 31, 2015 and through February 19, 2016, long-term borrowings increased by approximately $5.2 billion, net of maturities and repayments. This amount includes the issuance of $5.5 billion of senior debt on January 27, 2016
and $400 million of senior debt on February 17, 2016. For a further discussion of the Company s long-term borrowings, including the amount of senior debt outstanding at December 31, 2015, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8.            During 2015, Morgan
Stanley Capital Trusts VI and VII redeemed all of their issued and outstanding 6.60% Capital Securities, respectively, and the Company concurrently redeemed the related underlying junior subordinated debentures.   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Covenants.    
        In April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital
covenants in connection with an offering by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII Capital Securities, which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for
the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the
replacement capital covenants, see the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007.             Credit Ratings.             The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are impacted by, among other things, the
Company s credit ratings. In addition, the Company s credit ratings can have an impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer-term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative
transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Rating agencies consider company-specific factors; other industry factors such as regulatory or legislative changes; the macroeconomic environment; and perceived levels of
government support, among other things.            As of
December 2, 2015, the Company s credit ratings no longer incorporate uplift from perceived government support from any rating agency given the significant progress of the U.S. financial reform legislation and regulations. Meanwhile, some
rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of credit rating uplift from non-governmental third-party sources of potential support.   
         Parent and MSBNA s Senior Unsecured Ratings at
January 29, 2016.          

Parent   
     
   Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.    

Short-Term  Debt   
     
    Long-Term  Debt   
      
   Rating Outlook   
     
    Short-Term  Debt   
     
    Long-Term  Debt   
     
   Rating     Outlook    

DBRS, Inc.   
     
   R-1 (middle)   
     
  A (high)  
      
  Stable  

Fitch Ratings, Inc.(1)   
     
  F1  
     
  A  
      
  Stable  
     
  F1  
     
  A+  
     
  Stable   
 
    Moody s Investors Service, Inc.(2)   
     
  P-2  
     
  A3  
      
  Stable  
     
  P-1  
     
  A1  
     
  Stable   
 
    Rating and Investment Information, Inc.(3)   
     
  a-1  
     
  A-  
      
  Stable  

Standard   Poor s Ratings Services(4)   
     
  A-2  
     
  BBB+  
      
  Stable  
     
  A-1  
     
  A  
     
  Positive Watch   

(1)  
    On May 19, 2015, Fitch Ratings, Inc. upgraded the long-term rating of MSBNA by one notch to A+ from A. The rating outlook remained Stable.

(2)  
    On May 28, 2015, Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) upgraded the long-term rating of the Parent and MSBNA by two
notches to A3 from Baa2 and A1 from A3, respectively. The rating outlook for the Parent and MSBNA was revised to Stable.      

(3)  
    On November 6, 2015, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. downgraded the long-term rating of the Parent one-notch to A- from A. The rating
outlook for the Parent was revised to Stable.      

(4)  
    On December 2, 2015, Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) downgraded the rating of the non-operating holding
companies of all eight U.S. global systemically important banks by removing the government support uplift from the rating based on S P s view that it is uncertain that the U.S. government would provide extraordinary support to its banking
system given S P s review of the progress made toward putting in place a viable U.S. resolution plan. The Parent s long-term rating was lowered by one-notch to BBB+ from A-. The rating outlook for the Parent was revised to Stable. On
November 2, 2015, MSBNA s rating outlook was revised to Positive Watch from Positive.            
  In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements where the Company is a liquidity provider to certain
financing vehicles associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties or pledge additional
collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a future credit rating downgrade irrespective of whether the Company is in a net asset or net liability position.            The additional collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a future credit rating
downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s and S P. The table below shows the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or
exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios, from the lowest of Moody s or S P ratings, based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers.   

Table of Contents  

    Incremental Collateral or Terminating Payments upon Potential Future Rating Downgrade.
         
          While certain aspects of a
credit rating downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions, the impact it would have on the Company s business and results of operations in future periods is inherently uncertain and would depend on a number of interrelated
factors, including, among others, the magnitude of the downgrade, the rating relative to peers, the rating assigned by the relevant agency pre-downgrade, individual client behavior and future mitigating actions the Company might take. The liquidity
impact of additional collateral requirements is included in the Company s Liquidity Stress Tests.             Capital Management.             The Company s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business
opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the
changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries  required equity.            In March 2015, the Company received no objection from the Federal Reserve to its 2015 capital plan. The capital
plan included a share repurchase of up to $3.1 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock during the period that began April 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016. Additionally, the capital plan included an increase in the
Company s quarterly common stock dividend to $0.15 per share from $0.10 per share that began with the dividend declared on April 20, 2015. During 2015 and 2014, the Company repurchased approximately $2,125 million and $900 million,
respectively, of its outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Pursuant to the share repurchase program, the Company considers, among other things,
business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases under the Company s program will be exercised from time to time at prices the Company deems appropriate subject to various
factors, including its capital position and market conditions. The share repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, and may be suspended at any time. Share
repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval (see also  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5).   
        The Board determines the declaration and payment of dividends
on a quarterly basis. The cash dividends declared on the Company s outstanding preferred stock were $452 million, $311 million and $271 million for the years ended 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. On January 19, 2016, the Company
announced that the Board declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.15. The dividend is payable on February 15, 2016 to common shareholders of record on January 29, 2016 (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8).              Issuance of Preferred Stock.
              Series J Preferred
Stock.     On March 19, 2015, the Company issued 1,500,000 Depositary Shares for an aggregate price of $1,500 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/25th interest in a share of perpetual Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, $0.01 par value ( Series J Preferred Stock ). The Series J Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date
on or after July 15, 2020 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share
(equivalent to $1,000 per Depositary Share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Series J Preferred Stock also has a preference over the
Company s common   

Table of Contents  

stock upon liquidation. The Series J Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $1,493 million.   
        On December 15, 2015, the Company announced that the
Board declared a quarterly dividend for preferred stock shareholders of record on December 31, 2015, that was paid on January 15, 2016.         
   Preferred Stock Dividends.          

Series    
      
     Preferred Stock Description    
      
   Quarterly Dividend     per 
Share(1)   

A  
      
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each
having a dividend of $0.25556)   
      
  $  
  255.56  

C  
      
    10% Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock   

25.00  

E  
      
    Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock
and each having a dividend of $0.44531)   

445.31  

F  
      
    Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock
and each having a dividend of $0.42969)   

429.69  

G  
      
    6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having
a dividend of $0.41406)   

414.06  

H  
      
    Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock and
each having a dividend of $27.25000)(1)   

681.25  

I  
      
    Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock
and each having a dividend of $0.39844)   

398.44  

J  
      
    Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock and
each having a dividend of $27.75000)(2)   

693.75  

(1)  
    Dividend on Series H Preferred Stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2019 and quarterly thereafter.      

(2)  
    Dividend on Series J Preferred Stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2020 and quarterly thereafter.      
         Tangible Equity.    
         Tangible Equity Measures Period End and Average.

(1)  
    Average balances were calculated based upon month-end balances.      

(2)  
    Tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity and tangible common equity are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company and investors consider
to be a useful measure to assess capital adequacy.      

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Requirements.    
          Regulatory Capital Framework.     
        The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and
evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.   
          Implementation of U.S. Basel III.     
        The U.S. banking regulators have comprehensively revised
their risk-based and leverage capital framework to implement many aspects of the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee. The U.S. banking regulators  revised capital framework is referred to herein as  U.S. Basel
III.  The Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries became subject to U.S. Basel III on January 1, 2014. Aspects of U.S. Basel III, such as the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements, new capital buffers, and certain deductions from
and adjustments to capital, are being phased in over several years.             Regulatory Capital .    U.S. Basel III, which is aimed at increasing the quality and amount of regulatory capital, establishes Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a new tier of
capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, provides for capital buffers above those minimum ratios, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets
( RWAs ) the denominator of risk-based capital ratios by, among other things, increasing counterparty credit risk capital requirements, and introduces a supplementary leverage ratio. In addition, new items (including certain
investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions) are deducted from the respective tiers of regulatory capital, and certain existing regulatory deductions and adjustments are modified or are no longer applicable. The
majority of these capital deductions are subject to a phase-in schedule and will be fully phased in by 2018. Unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities are reflected in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-in schedule. The percentage
of the regulatory deductions and adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 capital that applied to the Company in 2015 generally ranged from 40% to 100%, depending on the specific item.   
        In addition, U.S. Basel III narrows the eligibility criteria
for regulatory capital instruments. Existing trust preferred securities are required to be fully phased out of the Company s Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016. Thereafter, existing trust preferred securities that do not satisfy U.S. Basel
III s eligibility criteria for Tier 2 capital will be phased out of the Company s regulatory capital by January 1, 2022.         
  The deductions that the Volcker Rule requires to be made from a bank holding company s Tier 1 capital for certain permissible
investments in covered funds are reflected in the relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios beginning with the three months ended September 30, 2015 (see also  Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding
Company Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule  in Part I, Item 1).             Risk-Weighted Assets.     The Company is required to calculate and hold capital against credit, market and operational risk RWAs. RWAs reflect both on- and off-balance sheet risk
of the Company. Credit risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower, counterparty or issuer failing to meet its financial obligations to the Company. Market risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable
to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. Operational risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external
events ( e.g. , fraud; theft; legal, regulatory and compliance risks; or damage to physical assets). The Company may incur operational risks across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. ,
sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). In addition, given the evolving regulatory and litigation environment across the financial services industry and the fact that operational
risk RWAs incorporate the impact of such related matters, operational risk RWAs may increase in future periods. For a further discussion of the Company s market, credit and operational risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk  in Item 7A.   

Table of Contents  

   The Basel Committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the
Basel III framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to U.S. Basel III. In particular, the Basel Committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures in
derivatives transactions, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures, and revised frameworks for market risk and securitization capital requirements. In addition, the Basel Committee has proposed revisions to various
regulatory capital standards, including for credit risk, operational risk and interest rate risk in the banking book. In each case, the impact of these revised standards on the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries is uncertain and depends on
future rulemakings by the U.S. banking agencies.         
   Calculation of Risk-Based Capital Ratios.     On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC
approved the Company s and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  respective use of the U.S. Basel III advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining
operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the  capital floor  discussed below (the  Advanced Approach ). As a
U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach banking organization, the Company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios calculated using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk RWAs and market risk RWAs (the  Standardized
Approach  and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk RWAs, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk RWAs, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk RWAs under U.S.
Basel III.            To implement a provision of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ), U.S. Basel III subjects Advanced Approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the Company, to
a permanent  capital floor.  Beginning on January 1, 2015, as a result of the capital floor, the Company s binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the Advanced
Approach or the Standardized Approach under U.S. Basel III. The U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach modifies certain U.S. Basel I-based methods for calculating RWAs and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and
exposures. The capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements, the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer (if deployed by banking regulators) and the global systemically important
bank ( G-SIB ) capital surcharge.            The
methods for calculating each of the Company s risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as aspects of U.S. Basel III are phased in. These ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the Company s
reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to its capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile.   
         Calculation of the U.S. Basel III Capital Ratios on a Transitional and
Fully Phased-In Basis.          

RWAs (Denominator of risk-based capital ratios)   
     
          Standardized Approach   
     
  U.S. Basel I and Basel 2.5 

U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach 

Advanced Approach  
     
  U.S. Basel III Advanced 
Approach         

Denominator of leverage ratios   
     
    Tier 1 Leverage Ratio         
     
   Adjusted Average On-Balance Sheet Assets(3)  

Supplementary Leverage Ratio  

Adjusted Average  
   On-Balance Sheet Assets(3)   
   and Certain Off-Balance  Sheet Exposures  

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Beginning in 2018, U.S. Basel III rules defining capital (numerator of capital ratios) will be fully phased in, except for the exclusion of
non-qualifying trust preferred securities from Tier 2 capital, which will be fully phased in as of January 1, 2022. In addition, the Company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer, a G-SIB
capital surcharge and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer, all of which will be fully phased in by the beginning of 2019. The capital conservation buffer, the G-SIB capital surcharge and, if
deployed, the countercyclical buffer apply in addition to each of the Company s Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total capital ratios. The requirements for these additional capital buffers will be phased in beginning in 2016. For information on
the recently adopted G-SIB capital surcharge, see  G-SIB Capital Surcharge  herein.      

(2)  
    In 2015, as a result of the Company s and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  completion of the Advanced Approach parallel run, the amount of
expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves must be deducted 40% from Common Equity Tier 1 capital and 60% from Additional Tier 1 capital. Over the next two years, this deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 capital will incrementally
increase and the amount deducted from Additional Tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease until fully phased in by the beginning of 2018. In addition, under the Advanced Approach framework, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in
Tier 2 capital. Instead, an Advanced Approach banking organization may include in Tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its
Advanced Approach credit risk RWAs. The allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in Tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under the Standardized Approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk RWAs.

(3)  
    In accordance with U.S. Basel III, adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the Tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average
daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of
unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.                 Regulatory Capital Ratios.               Regulatory Capital Ratios and Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios Applicable under U.S. Basel III.          
        N/A Not Applicable.            For the Company to remain a financial holding company, its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must qualify as  well-capitalized  under the higher capital requirements of U.S. Basel III by maintaining a
Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised
the  well-capitalized  standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards in U.S. Basel III. Assuming that the Federal Reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial
holding companies, each of the Company s risk-based capital ratios and Tier 1 leverage ratio at December 31, 2015 would have exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. The Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial
holding companies to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company s particular condition, risk profile and growth
plans.            At December 31, 2015, the
Company s capital ratios calculated under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach were lower than those calculated under the U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach and, therefore, are the binding ratios for the Company as a result of the capital
floor. At December 31, 2014, the Company s capital ratios calculated under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach were lower than those calculated under the Standardized Approach, represented as the U.S. banking regulators  U.S. Basel
I-based rules ( U.S. Basel I ) as supplemented by rules that implemented the Basel Committee s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as  Basel 2.5  and, therefore, are the binding ratios.   

Table of Contents  

    RWAs and Regulatory Capital Ratios under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach Transitional Rules.

(1)  
    Tier 1 leverage ratios are calculated under U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach transitional rules.      

(2)  
    Beginning with the first quarter of 2015, in accordance with U.S. Basel III, adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the Tier 1
leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain
investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.      

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Capital Calculated under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach Transitional
Rules.          

Table of Contents  

    Roll-forward of Regulatory Capital Calculated under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach
Transitional Rules.          

Table of Contents  

    Roll-forward of RWAs Calculated under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach Transitional
Rules.          
     
  VaR Value-at-Risk.   

(1)  
    The RWAs for each category in the table reflect both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, where appropriate.      

(2)  
    Amount reflects assets not in a defined category, non-material portfolios of exposures and unsettled transactions.      

(3)  
    Amount primarily reflects model recalibration related to residential mortgage litigation expense recorded in 2014.      
          Pro Forma Regulatory Capital Ratios.
              Pro Forma Estimates under the Fully
Phased-in U.S. Basel III Advanced and Standardized Approaches.          

(1)  
    Includes the applicable minimum risk-based capital ratio and capital conservation buffer and assumes that: (1) the G-SIB capital surcharge for
the Company remains at 3% as calculated by the Federal Reserve in July 2015; and (2) no countercyclical buffer has been deployed.      

Table of Contents  

   These fully phased-in basis pro forma estimates are based on the Company s current
understanding of U.S. Basel III and other factors, which may be subject to change as the Company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance from the Federal Reserve relating to U.S. Basel III and as the interpretation of the
regulation evolves over time. The fully phased-in basis pro forma Common Equity Tier 1 capital, RWAs and Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio estimates are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers to be useful measures for
evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at December 31, 2015. These preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should
not be taken as a projection of what the Company s capital ratios, RWAs, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, see  Risk
Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.            The
Company is subject to the following minimum capital ratios under U.S. Basel III: Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; Total capital ratio of 8.0%; and Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, on a fully
phased-in basis by 2019, the Company will be subject to a greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer. The capital conservation
buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the Company s Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. Failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the Company s ability to
make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The Company is also subject to the G-SIB capital surcharge, which augments the capital conservation
buffer (see   G-SIB  Capital Surcharge  herein), and a supplementary leverage ratio (see  Supplementary Leverage Ratio  herein).              G-SIB Capital Surcharge.     
        In July 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule
imposing risk-based capital surcharges on U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as G-SIBs, which include the Company. A G-SIB must calculate its G-SIB capital surcharge under two methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. The first
method considers the G-SIB s size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the Basel Committee. The second method uses similar inputs,
but replaces substitutability with the use of short-term wholesale funding and generally results in higher surcharges than the first method. The G-SIB capital surcharge must be satisfied using Common Equity Tier 1 capital and functions as an
extension of the capital conservation buffer. The Federal Reserve has stated that, under the final rule and using the most recent available data, the estimated G-SIB surcharges will range from 1.0% to 4.5% of a GSIB s RWAs. The Federal Reserve
calculated the Company s G-SIB surcharge at 3% in July 2015. The surcharge will be phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019, and the phase-in amount for 2016 is 25% of the applicable surcharge (see  Pro Forma
Regulatory Capital Ratios  herein).         
    Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt Requirements.              The Federal Reserve has issued a proposed rule for top-tier bank holding companies of U.S. G-SIBs
( covered BHCs ), including the Company, that establishes external total loss-absorbing capacity ( TLAC ) and long-term debt ( LTD ) requirements. The proposal contains various definitions and restrictions, such as
requiring eligible LTD to be unsecured, have a remaining maturity of at least one year, and not have derivative-linked features, such as structured notes.         
  Under the proposal, a covered BHC would be required to maintain minimum external TLAC equal to the greater of 16% of RWAs and 9.5% of its
U.S. Basel III total leverage exposure (the denominator of its supplementary leverage ratio) by January 1, 2019, increasing to the greater of 18% of RWAs and 9.5% of its U.S. Basel III total leverage exposure by January 1, 2022. In
addition, covered BHCs must meet a separate external LTD requirement equal to the greater of 6% of RWAs plus the Method 2 G-SIB capital surcharge applicable to the Company, and 4.5% of its U.S. Basel III total leverage exposure.   
        In addition, the proposed rule would impose a TLAC buffer on
top of the external TLAC requirement. The TLAC buffer must be composed solely of Common Equity Tier 1 capital, and the same Common Equity Tier 1 capital that is used to satisfy the capital conservation buffer, the G-SIB surcharge, and the
countercyclical buffer, if any, under U.S. Basel III may be used to satisfy the TLAC buffer. The required buffer amount would be equal to the sum of 2.5%, the Method 1 G-SIB   

Table of Contents  

surcharge applicable to the Company and any applicable countercyclical buffer. Failure to maintain the full TLAC buffer would result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary
bonus payments to executive officers.            The
proposal would also impose restrictions on certain liabilities that covered BHCs may incur or have outstanding, including structured notes, as well as require all U.S. banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve with assets of at least
$1 billion to make certain deductions from capital for their investments in unsecured debt issued by covered BHCs. The Company continues to evaluate the potential impact of these proposed requirements. The steps that the covered BHCs, including the
Company, may need to take to come into compliance with the final TLAC rules, including the amount and form of LTD that must be refinanced or issued, will depend in substantial part on the ultimate eligibility requirements for senior LTD and any
grandfathering provisions in the final rules.            The
main purpose of the Federal Reserve s proposed minimum TLAC and LTD requirements is to ensure that covered BHCs, including the Company, will have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion
of eligible LTD to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible LTD or other forms of TLAC where the single point of entry ( SPOE ) resolution strategy is used. This strategy can be used under either the orderly liquidation authority
in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act or the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and is being adopted by both U.S. resolution authorities and by resolution authorities in other countries. As with other major financial companies, the combined implication of the SPOE
resolution strategy and the TLAC proposal to facilitate the orderly resolution of G-SIBs is that the group s losses will likely be imposed on the holders of eligible LTD and other forms of eligible TLAC issued by the top-tier bank holding
company before any of its losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of the group s operating subsidiaries or put U.S. taxpayers at risk (see  Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding
Company Resolution and Recovery Planning  in Part I, Item 1 and  Risk Factors Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk  in Part I, Item 1A).   
          Capital Plans and Stress Tests  .   
             Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the Company, which form part of the Federal Reserve s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR )
framework.            The Company must submit an annual
capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Company and the Federal Reserve, so that the Federal Reserve may assess the Company s systems and processes that incorporate
forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain its internal capital adequacy. The capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a
debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution ( i.e. , payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could impact the bank holding company s consolidated capital. The
capital plan must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the U.S. Basel III requirements that are phased in over the planning horizon, and serve as a source
of strength to its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions under supervisory stress scenarios. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued guidance setting out its heightened expectations for capital planning practices at certain large financial
institutions, including the Company.            In November
2015, the Federal Reserve amended its capital plan and stress test rules, with effect from January 1, 2016, to delay until 2017 the use of the supplementary leverage ratio requirement, defer indefinitely the use of the Advanced Approach
risk-based capital framework in capital planning and company-run stress tests, and incorporate the Tier 1 capital deductions for certain investments in Volcker Rule covered funds into the pro forma minimum capital requirements for capital plan and
stress testing purposes. In addition, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it is considering whether and, if so, how to incorporate the G-SIB capital surcharge in the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act stress tests.   
        The capital plan rule requires that large bank holding
companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital
distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. A bank holding company s   

Table of Contents  

ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments) is also limited if its net capital issuances are less than the amount
indicated in its capital plan.            In addition, the
Company must conduct semiannual company-run stress tests and is subject to an annual Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The Company received no objection to its 2015 capital plan (see  Capital
Management  herein). Beginning with the 2016 capital planning and stress test cycle and in subsequent cycles, the cycle begins on January 1, and large bank holding companies must submit their capital plans and company-run stress test
results to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2016. The Company expects that the Federal Reserve will provide its response to the Company s 2016 capital plan by June 30, 2016. The Federal Reserve is expected to publish summary results of
the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including the Company, by June 30, 2016. The Company is required to disclose a summary of the results of its company-run stress tests within 15 days of the
date the Federal Reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress tests. In addition, the Company must submit the results of its mid-cycle company-run stress test to the Federal Reserve by October 5, 2016 and disclose a summary of the
results between October 5, 2016 and November 4, 2016.            The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. The OCC has shifted the timing of the annual stress testing cycle that applies to the
Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries beginning with the 2016 cycle. MSBNA and MSPBNA must submit their 2016 annual company-run stress tests to the OCC by April 5, 2016 and publish the summary results between June 15, 2016 and
July 15, 2016.              Supplementary Leverage
Ratio.              The Company and its U.S. Bank
Subsidiaries are required to publicly disclose their U.S. Basel III supplementary leverage ratio, which will become effective as a capital standard on January 1, 2018. By January 1, 2018, the Company must also maintain a Tier 1
supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of at least 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and
discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. In addition, beginning in 2018, the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered  well-capitalized.    
         Supplementary Leverage Exposure and Ratio on Transitional
Basis under the U.S. Basel III Rules.          

(1)  
    Computed as the average daily balance of consolidated total assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter.      

(2)  
    Computed as the arithmetic mean of the month-end balances over the calendar quarter.      

(3)  
    Reflects the addition of the potential future exposure for derivative contracts (including derivatives that are centrally cleared for clients), the
gross-up of cash collateral netting where certain qualifying criteria are not met, and the effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection offset by certain qualifying purchased credit protection.      

(4)  
    Reflects the counterparty credit risk associated with repo-style transactions.      

(5)  
    Reflects the credit equivalent amount of off-balance sheet exposures, which is computed by applying the relevant credit conversion factors.

(6)  
    Reflects adjustments to Tier 1 capital, including disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain
investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.      

(7)  
    At December 31, 2015, pro forma supplementary leverage ratios calculated using Tier 1 capital and pro forma supplementary leverage exposures
computed under U.S. Basel III on a transitional basis for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries were as follows: MSBNA: 7.3%; and MSPBNA: 10.3%.      
        The Company estimates its pro forma fully phased-in
supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 5.8% at December 31, 2015. This estimate utilizes a fully phased-in U.S. Basel III Tier 1 capital numerator and a fully phased-in   

Table of Contents  

denominator of approximately $1,095.6 billion, which takes into consideration the Tier 1 capital deductions that would be applicable in 2018 after the phased-in period has ended. The pro forma
supplementary leverage exposures and pro forma supplementary leverage ratios, both on transitional and fully phased-in bases, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers to be useful measures for evaluating compliance with new
regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. The Company s estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. Further, these
expectations should not be taken as projections of what the Company s supplementary leverage ratios, earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results
of the Company, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.              Required Capital.              The Company s required capital ( Required Capital ) estimation is based on the Required Capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based and leverage
use-of-capital measure, which is compared with the Company s regulatory capital to ensure that the Company maintains an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events, where applicable, at a point in
time. The Company defines the difference between its regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital as Parent capital. Average Common Equity Tier 1 capital, aggregate Required Capital and Parent capital for 2015 were approximately $58.2 billion,
$39.0 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, including for example, supplementary leverage ratio and U.S. Basel III transitional deductions and adjustments
expected to reduce its capital through 2018. The Company also holds Parent capital for organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.         
  Common Equity Tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the Required
Capital framework, as well as each business segment s relative contribution to the Company s total Required Capital. Required Capital is assessed for each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended
to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory
environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.   
         Average Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Average Common
Equity by Business Segment and Parent Capital.          

(1)  
    Amounts are calculated on a monthly basis. Average Common Equity and average Common Equity Tier 1 capital are non-GAAP financial measures that the
Company and investors consider to be useful measures to assess capital adequacy.                 Resolution and Recovery Planning.              Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the Company. The Company s preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in its 2015 resolution plan, is an SPOE strategy. On August 5, 2014, the Federal
Reserve and the FDIC notified the Company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans needed to be addressed in their 2015 resolution plans. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC both were to
determine that the Company s 2015 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the Company does not cure the plan s deficiencies, the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more
stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or, after a two-year period, the Company may be required to divest assets or operations.   

Table of Contents  

   For more information about resolution and recovery planning requirements and the activities
of the Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries in these areas, see  Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company Resolution and Recovery Planning  in Part I, Item 1.   
         Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations.
              Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.
             The Company enters into various
off-balance sheet arrangements, including through unconsolidated special purpose entities ( SPEs ) and lending-related financial instruments ( e.g. , guarantees and commitments), primarily in connection with the Institutional
Securities and Investment Management business segments.            The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. For information on the Company s securitization activities, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in
Item 8.            For information on the
Company s commitments, obligations under certain guarantee arrangements and indemnities, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. For further information on the Company s lending commitments, see
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Lending Activities  in Item 7A.         
    Contractual Obligations.           
  In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments.
Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations.             Future Cash Payments Associated with Certain Obligations.    

(1)  
    For further information on long-term borrowings and other secured financings, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.      

(2)  
    Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at
December 31, 2015.      

(3)  
    Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.

(4)  
    For further information on operating leases covering premises and equipment, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

(5)  
    Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, computer and telecommunications
maintenance agreements, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2015 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts
with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the consolidated statements of financial condition.      

(6)  
    Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 20 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information).      

Table of Contents  

    Effects of Inflation and Changes in Interest and Foreign Exchange Rates.    
        To the extent that an increased inflation outlook results in
rising interest rates or has negative impacts on the valuation of financial instruments that exceed the impact on the value of the Company s liabilities, it may adversely affect the Company s financial position and profitability. Rising
inflation may also result in increases in the Company s non-interest expenses that may not be readily recoverable in higher prices of services offered. Other changes in the interest rate environment and related volatility as well as
expectations about the level of future interest rates could also impact the Company s results of operations. For example, should interest rates remain stagnant or decrease to below zero for a prolonged period, this could negatively impact
certain of the Company s businesses. See also  Global Market and Economic Conditions  herein.         
  A significant portion of the Company s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign
exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, therefore, can affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified,
strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same
currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. For information about cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, see Note 15 to
the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   

Table of Contents  

Item  7A.   
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.                 Risk Management.          
   Overview.          
  Management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of the Company s business activities. Accordingly, the Company
has established an enterprise risk management ( ERM ) framework to integrate the diverse roles of risk management into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk assessment into decision-making processes
across the Company. Risk is an inherent part of the Company s businesses and activities. The Company has policies and procedures in place to identify, measure, monitor, advise, challenge and control the principal risks involved in the
activities of the Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, as well as at the holding company level. The principal risks involved in the Company s business activities include market (including
non-trading interest rate risk), credit, operational, liquidity and funding, franchise and reputational risk. Strategic risk is integrated into the Company s business planning, embedded in the evaluation of all principal risks and overseen by
its Board of Directors (the  Board ).         
  The cornerstone of the Company s risk management philosophy is the pursuit of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk taking that
protects its capital base and franchise, and is implemented through the ERM framework. Five key principles underlie this philosophy: integrity, comprehensiveness, independence, accountability and transparency. To help ensure the efficacy of risk
management, which is an essential component of the Company s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. The fast-paced, complex and constantly evolving nature of
global financial markets requires that the Company maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement.   
        The Company s risk appetite defines the types of risk
that it is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic objectives and business plan, taking into account the interest of clients and fiduciary duties to shareholders, as well as capital and other regulatory requirements. This risk appetite is
embedded in the Company s risk culture and, linked to its short-term and long-term strategic, capital and financial plans, as well as compensation programs. This risk appetite and the related Board-level risk limits and risk tolerance
statements are reviewed and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board ( BRC ) and the Board on, at least, an annual basis.         
    Risk Governance Structure.           
  Risk management at the Company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of its business divisions, and effective
communication of risk matters across the Company, to senior management and ultimately to the Board. The Company s risk governance structure is composed of the Board; the BRC, the Audit Committee of the Board ( BAC ), and the
Operations and Technology Committee of the Board ( BOTC  the Firm Risk Committee ( FRC  the functional risk and control committees; senior management oversight (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer); the Internal Audit Department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the business segments. The ERM framework, composed of independent but complementary
entities, facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of the Company s risk exposures and processes.   

Table of Contents  

Morgan Stanley Board of
Directors.     The Board has oversight for the ERM framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the Company s risks are managed in a sound manner. The Board has authorized the committees within the ERM
framework to help facilitate its risk oversight responsibilities. As set forth in the Company s Corporate Governance Policies, the Board also oversees, and receives reports on, the Company s practices and procedures relating to culture,
values and conduct.             Risk Committee of the
Board.     The BRC is composed of non-management directors. The BRC oversees the Company s global ERM framework; oversees the major risk exposures of the Company, including market, credit, operational, liquidity, funding,
reputational and franchise risk, against established risk measurement methodologies and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; oversees the Company s risk appetite statement, including risk limits and tolerances;
reviews capital, liquidity and funding strategy and related guidelines and policies; reviews the contingency funding plan and internal capital adequacy assessment process and capital plan; oversees the Company s significant risk management and
risk assessment guidelines and policies; oversees the performance of the Chief Risk Officer; reviews reports from the Company s Strategic Transactions Committee and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR )/Resolution and
Recovery Planning ( RRP ) Committee; reviews significant reputational risk, franchise risk, new product risk, emerging risks and regulatory matters; and reviews results of Internal Audit reviews and assessment of the risk management,
liquidity and capital functions. The BRC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis and the entire Board attends quarterly meetings with the BRC.         
   Audit Committee of the Board.     The BAC is composed of independent directors. The BAC oversees the integrity
of the Company s consolidated financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and system of internal controls; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines in coordination with the Board, BRC and BOTC and
reviews the major legal and compliance risk exposures of the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; selects, determines the compensation of, evaluates and when appropriate, replaces the independent auditor;
oversees the qualifications, independence and performance of the Company s independent auditor, and pre-approves audit and permitted non-audit services; oversees the performance of the Company s head of internal audit; and after review,
recommends to the Board the acceptance and inclusion of the annual audited consolidated financial statements in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K. The BAC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis.   
         Operations and Technology Committee of the
Board.     The BOTC is composed of non-management directors. The BOTC oversees the Company s operations and technology strategy, including trends that may affect such strategy; reviews operations and technology budget and
significant expenditures and investments; reviews operations and technology metrics; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding operations and technology risk; reviews the major operations and technology risk
exposures of the Company, including information security and cybersecurity risks, and   

Table of Contents  

the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; and oversees the Company s business continuity planning. The BOTC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis.
            Firm Risk
Committee.     The Board has also authorized the FRC, a management committee appointed and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Company, including the Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to oversee the global ERM framework. The FRC s responsibilities include oversight of the Company s risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and
material market, credit, operational, liquidity and funding, franchise and reputational risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The FRC also establishes and communicates
risk tolerance, including aggregate Company limits and tolerance, as appropriate. The Governance Process Review Subcommittee of the FRC oversees governance and process issues on behalf of the FRC. The FRC reports to the entire Board, the BAC, the
BOTC and the BRC through the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Legal Officer.             Functional Risk and Control Committees.     Functional risk and control committees comprising the ERM framework, including the Firm Credit Risk Committee, the Operational Risk
Oversight Committee, the Asset/Liability Management Committee, the Global Compliance Committee, the Technology Governance Committee and the Firm Franchise Committee, facilitate efficient and comprehensive supervision of the Company s risk
exposures and processes. The Strategic Transactions Committee reviews large strategic transactions and principal investments for the Company; the CCAR/RRP Committee oversees the Company s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, Dodd-Frank
Act Stress Testing and Title I Resolution Plan and Recovery Plan; the Global Legal Entity Oversight and Governance Committee monitors the governance framework that operates over the Company s consolidated legal entity population; the FHC
Governance Committee oversees the Company s initiatives relating to its status as a financial holding company; various commitment and underwriting committees are responsible for reviewing capital, lending and underwriting commitments on behalf
of the Company; and the Culture, Values and Conduct Committee is charged with developing Company-wide standards and overseeing initiatives relating to culture, values and conduct, including training and enhancements to performance and compensation
processes.            In addition, each business segment has
a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies,
procedures, controls and systems that are consistent with the risk framework established by the FRC; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement,
monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls.             Chief Risk Officer.     The Chief Risk Officer, who is independent of business units, reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the BRC. The Chief Risk Officer oversees
compliance with the Company s risk limits; approves exceptions to the Company s risk limits; independently reviews material market, credit, liquidity and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Board,
the BRC and the BAC, as appropriate. The Chief Risk Officer also coordinates with the Chief Financial Officer regarding capital and liquidity management and works with the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board to
help ensure that the structure and design of incentive compensation arrangements do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk taking.         
   Internal Audit Department.     The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment
and reports to the BAC. The Internal Audit Department provides an independent assessment of the Company s control environment and risk management processes using a risk-based methodology developed from professional auditing standards. The
Internal Audit Department also assists in assessing the Company s compliance with internal guidelines set for risk management and risk monitoring, as well as external rules and regulations governing the industry. It effects these
responsibilities through risk-based reviews of the Company s processes, activities, products or information systems; targeted reviews of specific controls and activities; pre-implementation reviews of new or significantly changed processes,
activities, products or information systems; and special investigations required as a result of internal factors or regulatory requests.         
   Independent Risk Management Functions.     The independent risk management functions (Market Risk, Credit Risk,
Operational Risk and Liquidity Risk Management Departments) are independent of the Company s business units. These functions assist senior management and the FRC in monitoring and controlling the Company s risk through a number of

Table of Contents  

control processes. Each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. Further discussion about the
responsibilities of the risk management functions may be found below under  Market Risk,   Credit Risk,   Operational Risk  and  Liquidity and Funding Risk.    
         Support and Control Groups.     The
Company s support and control groups include the Legal Department, the Compliance Department, the Finance Division, the Operations Division, the Technology and Data Division, and the Human Resources Department. The Company s support and
control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business
segment s market, credit and operational risk profile; liquidity risks; sales practices; reputational, legal enforceability, compliance and regulatory risk; and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Company and
business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review.   
         Culture, Values and Conduct of
Employees.     Employees of the Company are accountable for conducting themselves in accordance with the Company s core values:  Putting Clients First, Doing the Right Thing, Leading with Exceptional Ideas and Giving
Back . The Company is committed to establishing a strong culture anchored in these core values, its governance framework, management oversight, effective risk management and controls, training and development programs, policies, procedures, and
defined roles and responsibilities, including the role of the Culture, Values and Conduct Committee. The Company s Code of Conduct (the  Code ) establishes standards for employee conduct that further reinforce the Company s
commitment to integrity and ethical conduct. Every new hire and every employee annually must certify to their understanding of and adherence to the Code. The employee annual review process includes evaluation of adherence to the Code and the
Company s core values. The Global Incentive Compensation Discretion Policy sets forth standards that specifically provide that managers must consider whether their employees effectively managed and/or supervised risk control practices during
the performance year. The Company also has several mutually reinforcing processes to identify employee conduct that may have an impact on employment status, current-year compensation and/or prior-year compensation. The Company s clawback and
cancellation provisions permit recovery of deferred incentive compensation where an employee s act or omission (including with respect to direct supervisory responsibilities) causes a restatement of the Company s consolidated financial
results, constitutes a violation of the Company s global risk management principles, policies and standards or causes a loss of revenues associated with a position on which the employee was paid and the employee operated outside of internal
control policies.              Stress Value-at-Risk.
             The Company frequently enhances its
market and credit risk management framework to address severe stresses that are observed in global markets during economic downturns. During 2015, the Company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario
analysis, and further refined its market and credit risk limit framework. Stress Value-at-Risk ( S-VaR ), a proprietary methodology that comprehensively measures the Company s market and credit risks, was further refined and continues
to be an important metric used in establishing its risk appetite and capital allocation framework. S-VaR simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various
types of general and specific risks. Additionally, S-VaR captures event and default risks that are particularly relevant for credit portfolios.         
    Risk Management Process.           
  The following is a discussion of the Company s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (capital and liquidity
risk is discussed in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Item 7). The discussion focuses on the Company s securities activities
(primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the
Company s risk exposure generated by its statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due
to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.   

Table of Contents  

    Market Risk.          
  Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price
volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result of trading,
investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the Institutional Securities business segment where the substantial majority of the Company s Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition,
the Company incurs trading-related market risk within the Wealth Management business segment. The Investment Management business segment incurs principally Non-trading market risk, primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and
investments in private equity vehicles.            Sound
market risk management is an integral part of the Company s culture. The various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The control groups help ensure that these
risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. The Market Risk Department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits and escalating risk
concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Market Risk Department monitors the Company s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk
summaries, and maintains its VaR and scenario analysis systems. These limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is also monitored through various measures: by use of statistics (including VaR, S-VaR and related
analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario analyses conducted by the Market Risk
Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Market Risk Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC and
the Board.            The Chief Risk Officer, among other
things, monitors market risk through the Market Risk Department, which reports to the Chief Risk Officer and is independent of the business units, and has close interactions with senior management and the risk management control groups in the
business units. The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the FRC, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Company, and regularly reports on market risk matters to this committee, as well as to the BRC and
the Board.              Sales and Trading and Related
Activities.               Primary Market Risk
Exposures and Market Risk Management.     During 2015, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and
spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities.            The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate-sensitive financial instruments ( e.g ., risk arising
from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active
include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).            The Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity
securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). Positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real
estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities.         
  The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and
foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments.         
  The Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities in crude and refined oil
products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of   

Table of Contents  

high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production and transportation; or geopolitical and other events that
affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.            The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the
purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g ., futures, forwards, swaps and options). Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against
trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading
activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is
well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects its aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company s senior management.   
        Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the
Company across all divisions worldwide. Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market
risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by the Company s senior management.         
   VaR.     The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to measure, monitor
and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.   
         VaR Methodology, Assumptions and
Limitations.     The Company estimates VaR using a model based on volatility-adjusted historical simulation for general market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans
and related derivatives. The model constructs a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on the following: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and
information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. The Company s VaR model uses four years of historical data with a volatility adjustment to reflect current market conditions. VaR for risk management
purposes ( Management VaR ) is computed at a 95% level of confidence over a one-day time horizon, which is a useful indicator of possible trading losses resulting from adverse daily market moves. The 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the
unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.
           The Company s VaR model generally takes into
account linear and non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. The model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and
non-linear exposures to implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. The VaR model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis
risks ( e.g.,  corporate debt and related credit derivatives).            The Company uses VaR as one of a range of risk management tools. Among their benefits, VaR models permit estimation of a portfolio s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied
market risks and portfolio assets. One key element of the VaR model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities. However, VaR has various limitations, which include, but are not limited to: use of
historical changes in market risk factors, which may not be accurate predictors of future market conditions and may not fully incorporate the risk of extreme market events that are outsized relative to observed historical market behavior or reflect
the historical distribution of results beyond the 95% confidence interval; and reporting of losses in a single day, which does not reflect the risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged in one day. A small proportion of market risk
generated by trading positions is not included in VaR. The modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different results from those produced using
more precise measures. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and
other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management oversight process. This process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis and control at the trading desk,
division and Company levels.   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s VaR model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of
trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in
market structure and dynamics. As part of the Company s regular process improvements, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model s ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset
classes or industry sectors.            Since the reported
VaR statistics are estimates based on historical data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company s future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the
Company s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a 95%/one-day VaR. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses that,
should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.            VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the firms  portfolios, modeling assumptions and methodologies. These differences can result in materially different
VaR estimates across firms for similar portfolios. The impact of such differences varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated and the confidence level. As a result, VaR statistics are
more useful when interpreted as indicators of trends in a firm s risk profile rather than as an absolute measure of risk to be compared across firms.         
  The Company utilizes the same VaR model for risk management purposes, as well as for regulatory capital calculations. The Company s
VaR model has been approved by the Company s regulators for use in regulatory capital calculations.         
  The portfolio of positions used for Management VaR differs from that used for regulatory capital requirements ( Regulatory
VaR ), as Management VaR contains certain positions that are excluded from Regulatory VaR. Examples include counterparty Credit Valuation Adjustments ( CVA ) and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and
associated hedges.            The following table presents
the Management VaR for the Trading portfolio, on a period-end, annual average and annual high and low basis. To further enhance the transparency of the traded market risk, the Credit Portfolio VaR has been disclosed as a separate category from the
Primary Risk Categories. The Credit Portfolio includes counterparty CVA and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges.   
          Trading Risks.     
         95%/One-Day Management VaR.    
     
        N/A Not Applicable.   

(1)  
    Diversification benefit equals the difference between the total Management VaR and the sum of the component VaRs. This benefit arises because the
simulated one-day losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component.      

(2)  
    The high and low VaR values for the total Management VaR and each of the component VaRs might have occurred on different days during the year, and
therefore, the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure.      

Table of Contents  

   The average Management VaR for the Primary Risk Categories for 2015 was $47 million compared
with $43 million for 2014. The increase was primarily driven by higher market volatility.             Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for 2015.     One method of evaluating the reasonableness of the Company s VaR model as a measure of the Company s
potential volatility of net revenues is to compare VaR with actual trading revenues. Assuming no intraday trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed VaR during the year is 13, and, in general, if
trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the VaR model would be questioned. The Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the
model with actual trading results for the Company, as well as individual business units. For days where losses exceed the VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR model s accuracy relative to
realized trading results.            The distribution of VaR
Statistics and Net Revenues is presented in the histograms below for the Total Trading populations.             Total Trading.     As shown in the 95%/One-Day Management VaR table, the average 95%/one-day Total Management VaR for 2015 was $50 million. The histogram below presents the
distribution of the daily 95%/one-day Total Management VaR for 2015, which was in a range between $40 million and $60 million for approximately 99% of trading days during the year.       

Table of Contents  

   The histogram below shows the distribution for 2015 of daily net trading revenues, including
profits and losses from Interest rate and credit spread, Equity price, Foreign exchange rate, Commodity price and Credit Portfolio positions and intraday trading activities, for the Company s Trading businesses. Daily net trading revenues also
include intraday trading activities but exclude certain items not captured in the VaR model, such as fees, commissions and net interest income. Daily net trading revenues differ from the definition of revenues required for Regulatory VaR
backtesting, which further excludes intraday trading. During 2015, the Company experienced net trading losses on 32 days, of which no day was in excess of the 95%/one-day Total Management VaR.   

Non-trading Risks.
             The Company believes that sensitivity
analysis is an appropriate representation of the Company s non-trading risks. Reflected below is this analysis covering substantially all of the non-trading risk in the Company s portfolio.   
         Counterparty Exposure Related to the Company s Own
Credit Spread .    The credit spread risk sensitivity of the counterparty exposure related to the Company s own credit spread corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $6 million for each 1 basis point
widening in the Company s credit spread level at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.         
   Funding Liabilities .    The credit spread risk sensitivity of the Company s mark-to-market funding
liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $11 million and $10 million for each 1 basis point widening in the Company s credit spread level at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.   
         Interest Rate Risk
Sensitivity .    The table below presents an analysis of selected instantaneous upward and downward parallel interest rate shocks on net interest income over the next 12 months for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.
These shocks are applied to the Company s 12-month forecast for its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, which incorporates market expectations of interest rates and the Company s forecasted business activity, including its deposit deployment strategy
and asset-liability management hedges. Thus, the impacts are incremental to that forecast and, additionally, do not reflect the impact of the repricing of assets and liabilities beyond 12 months. As a result, impacts from an instantaneous shock can
vary significantly from period to period and can vary compared with impacts from a similar move in rates over time. For example, depending on interest rate levels and the relative sensitivity of assets and liabilities, an instantaneous increase (as
opposed to an increase over time) may have a negative or positive impact on net interest income over the subsequent 12 months. At December 31, 2015, large instantaneous interest rates shocks had a negative impact to the Company s U.S. Bank
Subsidiaries  projected net interest income over the following 12 months due to composition of the banks  assets as well as expected deposit pricing behavior at higher levels of interest rates.   

Table of Contents  

    U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  Net Interest Income Sensitivity Analysis.    
     
          The Company does not manage
to any single rate scenario but rather manages net interest income in its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to optimize across a range of possible outcomes. The sensitivity analysis assumes that the Company takes no action in response to these rate shocks and
does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates.         
   Investments .    The Company makes investments in both public and private companies. These investments are
predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, the majority of which are for business facilitation purposes. The market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net income associated with
a 10% decline in investment values and related impact on performance fees.             Investments Sensitivity, Including Related Performance Fees.          
           Equity Market
Sensitivity.     In the Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, certain fee-based revenue streams are driven by the value of clients  equity holdings. The overall level of revenues for these streams
also depends on multiple additional factors that include, but are not limited to, the level and duration of the equity market decline, price volatility, the geographic and industry mix of client assets, the rate and magnitude of client investments
and redemptions, and the impact of such market decline and price volatility on client behavior. Therefore, overall revenues do not correlate completely with changes in the equity markets.             Credit Risk.          
  Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to the
Company. The Company primarily incurs credit risk exposure to institutions and individuals through its Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments.   
        The Company may incur credit risk in its Institutional
Securities business segment through a variety of activities, including, but not limited to, the following:         

entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to the Company;

extending credit to clients through various lending commitments;            

providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover
the loan repayment amount;      

Table of Contents  

posting margin and/or collateral to clearinghouses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties;

placing funds on deposit at other financial institutions to support the Company s clearing and settlement obligations; and

investing or trading in securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the
underlying obligations or loans.            
  The Company incurs credit risk in its Wealth Management business segment, primarily through lending to individuals and entities,
including, but not limited to, the following:         

margin loans collateralized by securities;      

securities-based and other forms of secured loans; and      

single-family residential mortgage loans in conforming, non-conforming or home equity lines of credit ( HELOC ) form, primarily to
existing Wealth Management clients.                 Monitoring and Control.              In order to help protect the Company from losses, the Credit Risk Management Department establishes Company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure at the transaction, obligor
and portfolio levels. The Credit Risk Management Department approves extensions of credit, evaluates the creditworthiness of the counterparties and borrowers on a regular basis, and ensures that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. The
evaluation of counterparties and borrowers includes an assessment of the probability that an obligor will default on its financial obligations and any losses that may occur when an obligor defaults. In addition, credit risk exposure is actively
managed by credit professionals and committees within the Credit Risk Management Department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes individuals from the Credit Risk Management Department. A comprehensive and global Credit
Limits Framework is utilized to manage credit risk levels across the Company. The Credit Limits Framework is calibrated within the Company s risk tolerance and includes single-name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry
and product type.            The Credit Risk Management
Department ensures transparency of material credit risks, compliance with established limits and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. The Credit Risk Management Department also works closely with the Market Risk
Department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures and to perform stress tests to identify, analyze and control credit risk concentrations arising in the lending and trading activities. The stress tests shock market factors
( e.g. , interest rates, commodity prices, credit spreads), risk parameters  (e.g. , default probabilities and loss given default), recovery rates and expected losses in order to assess the impact of stresses on exposures, profit and loss,
and the Company s capital position. Stress and scenario tests are conducted in accordance with established Company policies and procedures.         
    Credit Evaluation.            
        The evaluation of corporate and institutional counterparties
and borrowers includes assigning obligor credit ratings, which reflect an assessment of an obligor s probability of default and loss given default. Credit evaluations typically involve the assessment of financial statements; leverage;
liquidity; capital strength; asset composition and quality; market capitalization; access to capital markets; adequacy of collateral, if applicable; and in the case of certain loans, cash flow projections and debt service requirements. The Credit
Risk Management Department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry dynamics, management and other factors that could affect the obligor s risk profile. Additionally, the Credit Risk Management Department evaluates the relative
position of the Company s exposure in the borrower s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as adequacy of collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction.   
        The evaluation of consumer borrowers is tailored to the
specific type of lending. Margin and securities-based loans are evaluated based on factors that include, but are not limited to, the amount of the loan, the degree of leverage and the quality, diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the
collateral. The underwriting of residential real estate loans includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor s income, net worth, liquidity, collateral, loan-to-value ratio and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring for
individual loans is performed at the portfolio level, and collateral values are monitored on an ongoing basis.   

Table of Contents  

   Credit risk metrics assigned to the Company s borrowers during the evaluation process
are incorporated into the Credit Risk Management Department s maintenance of the allowance for loan losses for the loans held for the investment portfolio. Such allowance serves as a reserve for probable inherent losses, as well as probable
losses related to loans identified for impairment. For more information on the allowance for loan losses, see Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   
          Risk Mitigation.       
             The Company may seek to mitigate credit
risk from its lending and trading activities in multiple ways, including collateral provisions, guarantees and hedges. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor,
financial covenants, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single-name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. Additionally, the
Company may sell, assign or syndicate loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan markets. In connection with its derivatives trading activities, the Company generally enters into master netting
agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master agreement in
the event of a counterparty default.         
    Lending Activities.           
  The Company provides loans and lending commitments to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net
worth individuals. In addition, the Company purchases loans in the secondary market. In the consolidated statements of financial condition, these loans and lending commitments are carried at either fair value with changes in fair value recorded in
earnings; held for investment, which are recorded at amortized cost; or held for sale, which are recorded at lower of cost or fair value. Loans held for investment and loans held for sale are classified in Loans, and loans held at fair value are
classified in Trading assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition. See Notes 3, 7 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.             Loan Portfolio by Loan Type within the Institutional Securities and Wealth Management Business Segments.    

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    Amounts exclude $25.3 billion and $29.0 billion related to margin loans and $4.9 billion and $5.1 billion related to employee loans at
December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.      

(2)  
    Lending commitments represent the notional amount of legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients for all lending transactions. Since
commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused or may not be utilized to full capacity, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.      

(3)  
    For syndications led by the Company, the lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by
counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that the Company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be
allocated from the lead, syndicate bank. Due to the nature of the Company s obligations under the commitments, these amounts include certain commitments participated to third parties.      
        The Company s credit exposure from its loans and lending
commitments is measured in accordance with the Company s internal risk management standards. Risk factors considered in determining the allowance include the borrower s financial strength, seniority of the loan, collateral type, volatility
of collateral value, debt cushion, loan-to-value ratio, debt service ratio, covenants and counterparty type. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the allowance for loan losses related to loans that were accounted for as held for
investment was $225 million and $149 million, respectively, and the allowance for commitment losses related to lending commitments that were accounted for as held for investment was $185 million and $149 million, respectively. The aggregate
allowance for loan and commitment losses increased over the year ended December 31, 2015 due to environmental macro factors including a deteriorating energy sector, updates to parameters used in determining the inherent allowance and overall
portfolio growth. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.         
   Institutional Securities Lending Activities   .      In connection with certain of its Institutional
Securities business segment activities, the Company provides loans and lending commitments to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients. These activities include corporate lending, commercial and residential mortgage lending,
asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to equities and commodities customers, and loans to municipalities. These loans and lending commitments may have varying terms; may be senior or
subordinated; may be secured or unsecured; are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower; and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company.   

Table of Contents  

   Institutional Securities loans and lending commitments are mainly related to
relationship-based and event-driven lending to select corporate clients. Relationship-based loans and lending commitments are used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity purposes by the Company s Investment Banking
clients and typically consist of revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and term loans. In connection with the relationship-based lending activities, the Company had hedges (which included  single name,   sector 
and  index  hedges) with a notional amount of $12.0 billion and $12.9 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. Event-driven loans and lending commitments are associated with a particular event or transaction, such
as to support client merger, acquisition, recapitalization and project finance activities. Event-driven loans and lending commitments typically consist of revolving lines of credit, term loans and bridge loans.   
         Institutional Securities Loans and Lending Commitments by Credit
Rating(1).          

(1)  
    Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department.      

(2)  
    Unrated loans and lending commitments are primarily trading positions that are measured at fair value and risk managed as a component of Market
Risk. For a further discussion of the Company s Market Risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A.      
        At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the
aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $15.8 billion and $11.8 billion, respectively, the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $26.9 billion and $25.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of unrated loans was $4.2
billion and $3.5 billion, respectively.         
   Event-Driven Loans and Lending Commitments.     Included in the total loans and lending commitments above at
December 31, 2015 were event-driven exposures of $23.2 billion composed of loans of $5.4 billion and lending commitments of $17.8 billion. Included in the event-driven exposures at December 31, 2015 were $13.5 billion of loans and lending
commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. The maturity profile of these event-driven loans and lending commitments at December 31, 2015 was as follows: 24% will mature in less than 1 year, 21% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 24% will
mature within 3 to 5 years and 31% will mature in over 5 years.            Included in the total loans and lending commitments above at December 31, 2014 were event-driven exposures of $15.2 billion composed of funded loans of $5.7 billion and lending commitments of $9.5
billion. Included in the event-driven exposure at December 31, 2014 were $11.6 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers.   

Table of Contents  

The maturity profile of these event-driven loans and lending commitments at December 31, 2014 was as follows: 18% will mature in less than 1 year, 14% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 37%
will mature within 3 to 5 years and 31% will mature in over 5 years.            At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, approximately 99.5% of the Institutional Securities business segment loans held for investment were current, while approximately 0.5% were on
nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt.         
   Institutional Securities Credit Exposure from Loans and Lending Commitments by Industry.          

(1)  
    Industry categories are based on the Global Industry Classification Standard .      

(2)  
    Includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses, and diversified financial services.
               Institutional Securities
Lending Exposures Related to the Energy Industry.     At December 31, 2015, Institutional Securities  loans and lending commitments related to the energy industry were $15.9 billion. Approximately 60% of these energy
industry loans and lending commitments were to investment grade counterparties. At December 31, 2015, the energy industry portfolio included $1.7 billion in loans and $2.7 billion in lending commitments to Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
( E P ) companies. The E P loans were substantially all to non-investment grade counterparties which are subject to semi-annual borrowing base reassessments based on the value of the underlying oil and gas reserves pledged as
collateral. The E P lending commitments were primarily to investment grade counterparties.             Margin Lending.     In addition, Institutional Securities lending activities include margin lending, which allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities.
At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the amounts related to margin lending were $10.6 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively, which were classified within Customer and other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial
condition.             Wealth Management Lending
Activities.     The principal Wealth Management lending activities include securities-based lending and residential real estate loans.         
  Securities-based lending provided to the Company s retail clients is primarily conducted through its Portfolio Loan Account
( PLA ) and Liquidity Access Line ( LAL ) platforms which had an outstanding loan balance of $24.9 billion and $19.1 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. These loans allow the client to
borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any purpose other than purchasing securities. The Company establishes approved credit lines against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines,
requires customers to deposit   

Table of Contents  

additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. These credit lines are primarily uncommitted loan facilities, as the Company reserves the right to not make any advances, or may
terminate these credit lines at any time. Factors considered in the review of these loans include, but are not limited to, the loan amount, the client s credit profile, the degree of leverage, collateral diversification, price volatility and
liquidity of the collateral.            Residential real
estate loans consist of first and second lien mortgages, including HELOC loans. The Company s underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis
utilizing industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g. , Fair Isaac Corporation ( FICO ) scores), debt ratios and assets of the borrower. Loan-to-value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property
appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. The vast majority of mortgage and HELOC loans are held for investment in the Wealth Management business segment s loan portfolio.   
        For the year ended December 31, 2015, loans and lending
commitments associated with the Wealth Management business segment lending activities increased by approximately 29%, mainly due to growth in PLA, LAL and residential real estate loans.             Wealth Management Lending Activities by Remaining Contractual Maturity.    

At December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, approximately 99.9% of the Wealth Management business segment loans held for investment were current, while approximately 0.1% were on nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or
payment of principal or interest was in doubt.         
  The Wealth Management business segment also provides margin lending to clients and had an outstanding balance of $14.7 billion and $13.7
billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, which were classified within Customer and other receivables within the consolidated statements of financial condition.   
        In addition, the Wealth Management business segment has
employee loans that are granted primarily in conjunction with programs established by the Company to recruit and retain certain employees. These loans, recorded in Customer and other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial condition,
are full recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from 2 to 12 years. The Company establishes an allowance for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated employees, which is recorded in Compensation and
benefits expense.   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Exposure Derivatives.             The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives. Credit risk with
respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. In connection with its OTC derivative activities, the Company generally enters into master netting agreements and
collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master netting agreement in the
event of counterparty default. The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale
of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). For credit exposure information on the Company s OTC derivative products, see Note 4
to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.             Credit Derivatives .    A credit derivative is a contract between a seller and buyer of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on one or more debt obligations
issued by a specified reference entity. The buyer typically pays a periodic premium over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. If a credit event occurs, the seller is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms
of the credit derivative contract. Credit events, as defined in the contract, may be one or more of the following defined events: bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation,
payment moratorium and restructurings.            The
Company trades in a variety of credit derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. In transactions referencing a portfolio of entities or securities, protection may be limited to a
tranche of exposure or a single name within the portfolio. The Company is an active market maker in the credit derivatives markets. As a market maker, the Company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manages any residual
credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. Further, the Company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented. The effectiveness of the
Company s credit default swap ( CDS ) protection as a hedge of its exposures may vary depending upon a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS.   
        The Company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk
related to credit derivatives. A majority of the Company s counterparties are composed of banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions. Contracts with these counterparties may include provisions related to counterparty
rating downgrades, which may result in the counterparty posting additional collateral to the Company. As with all derivative contracts, the Company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation
adjustments as appropriate within Trading revenues in the consolidated statements of income.             Credit Derivative Portfolio by Counterparty.          

Table of Contents  

(1)  
    The Company s CDS are classified in either Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 3% and 4% of receivable fair values
and 6% and 7% of payable fair values represented Level 3 amounts at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).      
        The fair values shown above are before the application of
contractual netting or collateral. For additional credit exposure information on the Company s credit derivative portfolio, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   
         OTC Derivative Products at Fair Value, Net of Collateral,
by Industry.          

(1)  
    Industry categories are based on the Global Industry Classification Standard .      

(2)  
    Amounts include mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses, and diversified financial services.

(3)  
    For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
                Other   .
                 In addition to the activities
noted above, there are other credit risks managed by the Credit Risk Management Department and various business areas within the Institutional Securities business segment. The Company participates in securitization activities whereby it extends
short-term or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by the assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate loans, loans secured by loan pools,
commercial company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in the
underlying collateral value. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about the Company s securitization activities. In addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against
requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about the Company s collateralized transactions.   

Table of Contents  

    Country Risk Exposure.             Country risk exposure is the risk that events in, or that affect, a foreign country (any country other than the
U.S.) might adversely affect the Company. The Company actively manages country risk exposure through a comprehensive risk management framework that combines credit and market fundamentals and allows the Company to effectively identify, monitor and
limit country risk. Country risk exposure before and after hedging is monitored and managed.            The Company s obligor credit evaluation process may also identify indirect exposures whereby an obligor has vulnerability or exposure to another country or jurisdiction. Examples of indirect
exposures include mutual funds that invest in a single country, offshore companies whose assets reside in another country to that of the offshore jurisdiction and finance company subsidiaries of corporations. Indirect exposures identified through
the credit evaluation process may result in a reclassification of country risk.            The Company conducts periodic stress testing that seeks to measure the impact on its credit and market exposures of shocks stemming from negative economic or political scenarios. When deemed appropriate
by the Company s risk managers, the stress test scenarios include possible contagion effects. Second order risks such as the impact for core European banks of their peripheral exposures may also be considered. This analysis, and results of the
stress tests, may result in the amendment of limits or exposure mitigation.            In addition to its country risk exposure, the Company discloses its cross-border risk exposure in  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)  in
Item 8. It is based on the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border information and represents the amounts that the Company may not be able to obtain from a foreign country due
to country-specific events, including unfavorable economic and political conditions, economic and social instability, and changes in government policies.         
  There can be substantial differences between the Company s country risk exposure and cross-border risk exposure. For instance, unlike
the cross-border risk exposure, the Company s country risk exposure includes the effect of certain risk mitigants. In addition, the basis for determining the domicile of the country risk exposure is different from the basis for determining the
cross-border risk exposure. Cross-border risk exposure is reported based on the country of jurisdiction for the obligor or guarantor. For country risk exposure, the Company considers factors in addition to that of country of jurisdiction, including
physical location of operations or assets, location and source of cash flows/revenues and location of collateral (if applicable) in order to determine the basis for country risk exposure. Furthermore, cross-border risk exposure incorporates CDS only
where protection is purchased, while country risk exposure incorporates CDS where protection is purchased or sold.         
  The Company s sovereign exposures consist of financial instruments entered into with sovereign and local governments. Its
non-sovereign exposures consist of exposures to primarily corporations and financial institutions. The following table shows the Company s 10 largest non-U.S. country risk net exposures at December 31, 2015. Index credit derivatives are
included in the country risk exposure table. Each reference entity within an index is allocated to that reference entity s country of risk. Index exposures are allocated to the underlying reference entities in proportion to the notional
weighting of each reference entity in the index, adjusted for any fair value receivable/payable for that reference entity. Where credit risk crosses multiple jurisdictions, for example, a CDS purchased from an issuer in a specific country that
references bonds issued by an entity in a different country, the fair value of the CDS is reflected in the Net Counterparty Exposure column based on the country of the CDS issuer. Further, the notional amount of the CDS adjusted for the fair value
of the receivable/payable is reflected in the Net Inventory column based on the country of the underlying reference entity.   

Table of Contents  

    Top Ten Country Exposures at December 31, 2015.    

(1)  
    Net inventory represents exposure to both long and short single-name and index positions ( i.e. , bonds and equities at fair value and CDS
based on a notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). As a market maker, the Company transacts in these CDS positions to facilitate client trading. At December 31, 2015, gross purchased
protection, gross written protection, and net exposures related to single-name and index credit derivatives for those countries were $(164.9) billion, $161.5 billion and $(3.4) billion, respectively. For a further description of the triggers for
purchased credit protection and whether those triggers may limit the effectiveness of the Company s hedges, see  Credit Exposure Derivatives  herein.      

(2)  
    Net counterparty exposure ( i.e ., repurchase transactions, securities lending and OTC derivatives) takes into consideration legally
enforceable master netting agreements and collateral.      

Table of Contents  

(3)  
    At December 31, 2015, the benefit of collateral received against counterparty credit exposure was $10.4 billion in the United Kingdom
( U.K. ), with 99% of collateral consisting of cash and U.K. and U.S. government obligations, and $5.9 billion in France with 99% of collateral consisting of cash and government obligations of France. The benefit of collateral received
against counterparty credit exposure in the other countries totaled approximately $7.0 billion, with collateral primarily consisting of cash and government obligations of Germany, U.S. and France. These amounts do not include collateral received on
secured financing transactions.      

(4)  
    Amounts represent CDS hedges (purchased and sold) on net counterparty exposure and lending executed by trading desks responsible for hedging
counterparty and lending credit risk exposures for the Company. Amounts are based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable.      

(5)  
    In addition, at December 31, 2015, the Company had exposure to these countries for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $4.3 billion.
               Country Risk Exposure
Related to Brazil.  At December 31, 2015, the Company s country risk exposures in Brazil included net exposures of $4,561 million (shown in the above table). The Company s sovereign net exposures in Brazil were principally in the
form of local currency government bonds held onshore to support client activity. The $1,025 million (shown in the above table) of exposures to non-sovereigns were diversified across both names and sectors.   
         Country Risk Exposure Related to China . At
December 31, 2015, the Company s country risk exposures in China included net exposures of $3,255 million (shown in the above table) and overnight deposits with international banks of $438 million. The $2,981 million (shown in the above
table) of exposures to non-sovereigns were diversified across both names and sectors and were primarily concentrated in high-quality positions with negligible direct exposure to onshore equities.   
         Operational Risk.    
        Operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to
the Company s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). Operational risk relates to the following
risk event categories as defined by Basel II: internal fraud; external fraud, employment practices and workplace safety; clients, products and business practices; business disruption and system failure; damage to physical assets; and execution,
delivery and process management. The Company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. ,
information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance risk is discussed below under  Legal and Compliance Risk.          
  The Company has established an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and control risk across the Company. Effective
operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of operational risk incidents and mitigating legal and reputational risks. The framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the Company and to respond to the changing
regulatory and business environment. The Company has implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, to assess business environment and internal control factors and to
perform scenario analysis. The collected data elements are incorporated in the operational risk capital model. The model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. Internal loss data and scenario analysis results are direct inputs to
the capital model, while external operational incidents, business environment and internal control factors are evaluated as part of the scenario analysis process.   
        In addition, the Company employs a variety of risk processes
and mitigants to manage its operational risk exposures. These include a strong governance framework, a comprehensive risk management program and insurance. Operational risks and associated risk exposures are assessed relative to the risk tolerance
established by the Board and are prioritized accordingly. The breadth and range of operational risk are such that the types of mitigating activities are wide-ranging. Examples of activities include enhancing defenses against cyberattacks; use of
legal agreements and contracts to transfer and/or limit operational risk exposures; due diligence; implementation of enhanced policies and procedures; exception management processing controls; and segregation of duties.   
        Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk
is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. The business managers maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. Each of the business segments has
a designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to the Company s senior management within each business. Each control group also has a designated operational risk
coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with the Company s senior management. Oversight of operational risk is provided by the Operational   

Table of Contents  

Risk Oversight Committee, regional risk committees and senior management. In the event of a merger; joint venture; divestiture; reorganization; or creation of a new legal entity, a new product or
a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes or controls are implemented.         
  The Operational Risk Department is independent of the divisions and reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The Operational Risk Department
provides oversight of operational risk management and independently assesses, measures and monitors operational risk. The Operational Risk Department works with the divisions and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and
comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the Company. The Operational Risk Department scope includes oversight of technology and data risks ( e.g. , cybersecurity) and supplier management (vendor risk
oversight and assessment) program. Furthermore, the Operational Risk Department supports the collection and reporting of operational risk incidents and the execution of operational risk assessments; provides the infrastructure needed for risk
measurement and risk management; and ensures ongoing validation and verification of the Company s advanced measurement approach for operational risk capital.   
        Business Continuity Management is responsible for identifying
key risks and threats to the Company s resiliency and planning to ensure that a recovery strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption.
Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a Company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of the Company s Business Continuity Management Program
include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing.   
        The Company maintains an information security program that
coordinates the management of information security risks and is designed to address regulatory requirements. Information security policies are designed to protect the Company s information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or
misuse. These policies cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, Internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. The Company has also established policies,
procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access.            In connection with its ongoing operations, the Company utilizes the services of external vendors, which it anticipates will continue and may increase in the future. These services include, for example,
outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to these services through a variety of means such as the performance of due diligence, consideration of operational risk,
implementation of service level and other contractual agreements, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors  performance. The Company maintains a supplier risk management program with policies, procedures, organization, governance and supporting
technology that satisfies regulatory requirements. The program is designed to ensure that adequate risk management controls over the services exist, including, but not limited to information security, operational failure, financial stability,
disaster recoverability, reputational risk, safeguards against corruption and termination.             Liquidity and Funding Risk.             Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that the Company will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity
and funding risk also encompasses the Company s ability to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten the Company s viability as a going concern. Market or
idiosyncratic stress events may negatively affect the Company s liquidity and may impact its ability to raise new funding. Generally, the Company incurs liquidity and funding risk as a result of its trading, lending, investing and client
facilitation activities.            The Company s
Liquidity Risk Management Framework is critical to helping ensure that the Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves and durable funding sources to meet its daily obligations and to withstand unanticipated stress events. In 2015, the Company
established the Liquidity Risk Department as a distinct area in Risk Management to oversee and monitor liquidity and funding risk. The Liquidity Risk Department is independent of the business units and reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The
Liquidity Risk Department ensures transparency of material liquidity and funding risks, compliance with established risk limits and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Liquidity
Risk Department establishes limits in line with the Company s risk appetite, identifies and   

Table of Contents  

analyzes emerging liquidity and funding risks to ensure such risks are appropriately mitigated, monitors and reports risk exposures against metrics and limits, and reviews the methodologies and
assumptions underpinning the Company s Liquidity Stress Tests to ensure sufficient liquidity and funding under a range of adverse scenarios. The liquidity and funding risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the
Liquidity Risk Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC and the Board, as appropriate.         
  The Treasury Department and applicable business units have primary responsibility for evaluating, monitoring and controlling the liquidity
and funding risks arising from the Company s business activities, and maintain processes and controls to manage the key risks inherent in their respective areas. The Liquidity Risk Department coordinates with the Treasury Department and these
business units to help ensure a consistent and comprehensive framework for managing liquidity and funding risk across the Company. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7.             Legal and Compliance Risk.             Legal and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation that the
Company may suffer as a result of failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to its business activities. This risk also includes contractual and commercial risk
such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. It also includes compliance with anti-money laundering and terrorist financing rules and regulations. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation
in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see also  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1, and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A). The Company, principally through the Legal
and Compliance Division, has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to facilitate compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and to require that the
Company s policies relating to business conduct, ethics and practices are followed globally. In addition, the Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable,
including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies.
The heightened legal and regulatory focus on the financial services and banking industry presents a continuing business challenge for the Company.   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.       
           REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We
have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
cash flows, and changes in total equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.            We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
        In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 23, 2016
expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.         

121

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY          Consolidated Statements of Income        (dollars in
millions, except share and per share data)          
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY          Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
   (dollars in millions)          

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY    
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
    (dollars in millions, except share data)    
     
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

        MORGAN STANLEY    
   Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity        (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY    
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
   (dollars in millions)          
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW
INFORMATION       Cash payments for interest were $2,672 million, $3,575 million and $4,793 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.      Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were $677 million, $886 million and $930 million for 2015, 2014
and 2013, respectively.            See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY    
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS          

1.   
     Introduction and Basis of Presentation.       
         The Company.       
        Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global
financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Morgan Stanley, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide
variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley  or
the  Company  mean Morgan Stanley (the  Parent ) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.         
  A description of the clients and principal products and services of each of the Company s business segments is as follows:
            Institutional Securities 
provides investment banking, sales and trading and other services to corporations, governments, financial institutions, and high-to-ultra high net worth clients. Investment banking services comprise capital raising and financial advisory services,
including services relating to the underwriting of debt, equity and other securities as well as advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance. Sales and trading services include sales, financing and
market-making activities in equity securities and fixed income products, including foreign exchange and commodities, as well as prime brokerage services. Other services include corporate lending activities and credit products, investments and
research.             Wealth
Management  provides a comprehensive array of financial services and solutions to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering brokerage and investment advisory services,
 market-making  activities in fixed income securities, financial and wealth planning services, annuity and insurance products, credit and other lending products, banking and retirement plan services.   
         Investment Management  provides a broad
range of investment strategies and products that span geographies, asset classes, and public and private markets, to a diverse group of clients across institutional and intermediary channels. Institutional clients include defined benefit/defined
contribution pensions, foundations, endowments, government entities, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, third-party fund sponsors and corporations. Individual clients are serviced through intermediaries, including affiliated and
non-affiliated distributors. Strategies and products comprise traditional asset management, including equity, fixed income, liquidity, alternatives and managed futures products, as well as merchant banking and real estate investing.   
         Basis of Financial Information.       
        The consolidated financial statements are prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ), which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, the valuation of
goodwill and intangible assets, compensation, deferred tax assets, the outcome of legal and tax matters, allowance for credit losses and other matters that affect its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company believes
that the estimates utilized in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.   
          Consolidation.       
             The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest, including certain variable interest entities ( VIE ) (see Note 13). For consolidated
subsidiaries that are less than wholly owned, the third-party holdings of equity interests are referred to as noncontrolling interests. The portion of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as either
Net income (loss) applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests or Net income (loss) applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income. The portion of shareholders  equity of such

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

subsidiaries that is attributable to noncontrolling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests, a component of total equity, in the consolidated
statements of financial condition.            For entities
where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks and returns of the
entity and have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly affect its economic performance, the Company consolidates those entities it controls either through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For VIEs
( i.e. , entities that do not meet these criteria), the Company consolidates those entities where it has the power to make the decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses
or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE, except for certain VIEs that are money market funds, are investment companies or are entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies. Generally,
the Company consolidates those entities when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of the entities.   
        For investments in entities in which the Company does not
have a controlling financial interest but has significant influence over operating and financial decisions, it generally applies the equity method of accounting with net gains and losses recorded within Other revenues (see Note 8). Where the Company
has elected to measure certain eligible investments at fair value in accordance with the fair value option, net gains and losses are recorded within Investments revenues (see Note 3).            Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies
are carried at fair value.            The Company s
significant regulated U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC ( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ( MSSB LLC ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ),
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSMS ), Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association ( MSPBNA ).              Consolidated Statements of Income Presentation.            
        The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients. In connection with the delivery of these various products and services, the Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such,
when assessing the performance of its businesses, primarily in the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company considers its trading, investment banking, commissions and fees, and interest income, along with the associated interest
expense, as one integrated activity.         
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Presentation.     
        For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows,
cash and cash equivalents consist of Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks, which include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, that are held for investment purposes, and are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash.            During 2015
and 2014, the Company deconsolidated approximately $244 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, in net assets previously attributable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests that were primarily related to or associated with real estate funds
sponsored by the Company. The deconsolidations resulted in non-cash reduction of assets of $222 million in 2015 and $1.3 billion in 2014.         
  The Company s significant non-cash activities in 2013 included assets and liabilities of approximately $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion,
respectively, disposed of in connection with business dispositions.              Dispositions.              On November 1, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its global oil merchanting unit of the commodities division to Castleton Commodities International LLC. The loss on sale of approximately $71
million was recognized in Other revenues.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   On July 1, 2014, the Company completed the sale of its ownership stake in
TransMontaigne Inc., a U.S.-based oil storage, marketing and transportation company, as well as related physical inventory and the assumption of its obligations under certain terminal storage contracts, to NGL Energy Partners LP. The gain on sale of
$112 million is recorded in Other revenues.            On
March 27, 2014, the Company completed the sale of Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc., a public storage terminal operator for refined products with two distribution terminals in Canada. The gain on sale was approximately $45 million and is recorded
in Other revenues.         

2.   
     Significant Accounting Policies.             
   Revenue Recognition.          
    Investment Banking.           
  Underwriting revenues and advisory fees from mergers, acquisitions and restructuring transactions are recorded when services for the
transactions are determined to be substantially completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction, are
deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenues. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded within
Non-interest expenses.              Commissions and
Fees.                     Commission
and fee revenues are recognized on trade date. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity securities; services related to sales and trading activities; and sales of
mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.              Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.                
  Asset management, distribution and administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period. Sales commissions paid by the
Company in connection with the sale of certain classes of shares of its open-end mutual fund products are accounted for as deferred commission assets. The Company periodically tests the deferred commission assets for recoverability based on cash
flows expected to be received in future periods. In certain management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance-based fees (also referred to as incentive fees and includes carried interest) when the return on assets under
management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such arrangements, performance fee revenues are accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account/fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated
in the investment management agreement. Performance-based fees are recorded within Investments or Asset management, distribution and administration fees depending on the nature of the arrangement. The Company s portion of the unrealized
cumulative amount of performance-based fee revenue (for which the Company is not obligated to pay compensation) at risk of reversing if fund performance falls below stated investment management agreement benchmarks was approximately $363 million and
$634 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. See Note 12 for information regarding general partner guarantees, which include potential obligations to return performance fee distributions previously received.
             Trading and Investments.     
             See  Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  below for Trading and Investments revenue recognition discussions.             Fair Value of Financial Instruments.             Instruments within Trading assets and Trading liabilities are measured at fair value, either in accordance with accounting guidance or through the fair value option election (discussed below). These
financial instruments primarily represent the   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Company s trading and investment positions and include both cash and derivative products. In addition, debt securities classified as available for sale ( AFS ) securities and
Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral are measured at fair value.         
  Gains and losses on instruments carried at fair value are reflected in Trading revenues, Investments revenues or Investment banking
revenues in the consolidated statements of income, except for AFS securities (see  Investment Securities Available for Sale and Held to Maturity  section herein and Note 5) and derivatives accounted for as hedges (see  Hedge
Accounting  section herein and Note 4). Interest income and interest expense are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. When interest is included as a
component of the instruments  fair value, interest is included within Trading revenues or Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income or Interest expense. Dividend income is recorded in Trading revenues or Investments
revenues depending on the business activity. The fair value of OTC financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial
condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. Additionally, the Company nets the fair value of cash collateral paid or received against the fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the same counterparty
under the same master netting agreement.         
    Fair Value Option.           
  The fair value option permits the irrevocable fair value option election at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event
that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Company applies the fair value option for eligible instruments, including certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell, loans and lending commitments, equity method
investments, Deposits (structured certificate of deposits), Short-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Other secured financings and Long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes).
             Fair Value Measurement Definition and
Hierarchy.                         Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date.            In determining fair
value, the Company uses various valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most
observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that were developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable
inputs are inputs that reflect assumptions the Company believes other market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that are developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into
three levels based on the observability of inputs as follows:             Level 1.   Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation adjustments and block discounts are
not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant degree of judgment.   
         Level 2.   Valuations based on one or more
quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.         
   Level 3.   Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
           The availability of observable inputs can vary
from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, the liquidity of markets and other characteristics particular
to the product. To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is
greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The Company considers prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and
inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 3).            In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value
hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls in its entirety is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in
its entirety.            For assets and liabilities that are
transferred between Levels in the fair value hierarchy during the period, fair values are ascribed as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred as of the beginning of the period.              Valuation Techniques.                   Many cash instruments and OTC derivative contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the
marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that a party is willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that a party is willing to accept for an asset. The Company carries positions at the point within the bid-ask range
that meet its best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.   
        Fair value for many cash instruments and OTC derivative
contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, correlation,
creditworthiness of the counterparty, creditworthiness of the Company, option volatility and currency rates.         
  Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors such as liquidity risk (bid-ask adjustments), credit
quality, model uncertainty and concentration risk. Adjustments for liquidity risk adjust model-derived mid-market levels of Level 2 and Level 3 financial instruments for the bid-mid or mid-ask spread required to properly reflect the exit price of a
risk position. Bid-mid and mid-ask spreads are marked to levels observed in trade activity, broker quotes or other external third-party data. Where these spreads are unobservable for the particular position in question, spreads are derived from
observable levels of similar positions.            The
Company applies credit-related valuation adjustments to its short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) for which the fair value option was elected and to OTC derivatives. The Company considers the impact of changes in its own
credit spreads based upon observations of the secondary bond market spreads when measuring the fair value for short-term and long-term borrowings. For OTC derivatives, the impact of changes in both the Company s and the counterparty s
credit rating is considered when measuring fair value. In determining the expected exposure, the Company simulates the distribution of the future exposure to a counterparty, then applies market-based default probabilities to the future exposure,
leveraging external third-party credit default swap ( CDS ) spread data. Where CDS spread data are unavailable for a specific counterparty, bond market spreads, CDS spread data based on the counterparty s credit rating or CDS spread
data that reference a comparable counterparty may be utilized. The Company also considers collateral held and legally enforceable master netting agreements that mitigate its exposure to each counterparty.   
        Adjustments for model uncertainty are taken for positions
whose underlying models are reliant on significant inputs that are neither directly nor indirectly observable, hence requiring reliance on established theoretical concepts in their derivation. These adjustments are derived by making assessments of
the possible degree of variability using statistical approaches and market-based information where possible. The Company generally subjects all valuations and models to a review process initially and on a periodic basis thereafter.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The Company may apply a concentration adjustment to certain of its OTC derivatives
portfolios to reflect the additional cost of closing out a particularly large risk exposure. Where possible, these adjustments are based on observable market information, but in many instances, significant judgment is required to estimate the costs
of closing out concentrated risk exposures due to the lack of liquidity in the marketplace.            During 2014, the Company incorporated funding valuation adjustments ( FVA ) into the fair value measurements of OTC uncollateralized or partially collateralized derivatives and in collateralized
derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the collateral received. The Company s implementation of FVA reflects the inclusion of FVA in the pricing and valuations by the majority of market participants involved in
its principal exit market for these instruments. In general, FVA reflects a market funding risk premium inherent in the noted derivative instruments. The methodology for measuring FVA leverages the Company s existing credit-related valuation
adjustment calculation methodologies, which apply to both assets and liabilities.            Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available,
assumptions are set to reflect those that the Company believes market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Where the Company manages a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of
its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the Company measures the fair value of that group of financial instruments consistently with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.   
        See Note 3 for a description of valuation techniques applied
to the major categories of financial instruments measured at fair value.              Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.                
  Certain of the Company s assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company incurs losses or
gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value.            For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy for inputs as described above, which
maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.   
          Valuation Process.          
        The Valuation Review Group ( VRG ) within the
Company s Financial Control Group ( FCG ) is responsible for the Company s fair value valuation policies, processes and procedures. VRG is independent of the business units and reports to the Chief Financial Officer
( CFO ), who has final authority over the valuation of the Company s financial instruments. VRG implements valuation control processes to validate the fair value of the Company s financial instruments measured at fair value,
including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the
control processes are designed to ensure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable.         
  The Company s control processes apply to financial instruments categorized in Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy, unless otherwise noted. These control processes include:             Model Review.     VRG, in conjunction with the Market Risk Department ( MRD ) and, where appropriate, the Credit Risk Management Department, both of which report to the
Chief Risk Officer, independently review valuation models  theoretical soundness, the appropriateness of the valuation methodology and calibration techniques developed by the business units using observable inputs. Where inputs are not
observable, VRG reviews the appropriateness of the proposed valuation   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

methodology to ensure it is consistent with how a market participant would arrive at the unobservable input. The valuation methodologies utilized in the absence of observable inputs may include
extrapolation techniques and the use of comparable observable inputs. As part of the review, VRG develops a methodology to independently verify the fair value generated by the business unit s valuation models. All of the Company s
valuation models are subject to an independent annual review.             Independent Price Verification.     The business units are responsible for determining the fair value of financial instruments using approved valuation models and valuation
methodologies. Generally on a monthly basis, VRG independently validates the fair values of financial instruments determined using valuation models by determining the appropriateness of the inputs used by the business units and by testing compliance
with the documented valuation methodologies approved in the model review process described above.            VRG uses recently executed transactions, other observable market data such as exchange data, broker-dealer quotes, third-party pricing vendors and aggregation services for validating the fair value of
financial instruments generated using valuation models. VRG assesses the external sources and their valuation methodologies to determine if the external providers meet the minimum standards expected of a third-party pricing source. Pricing data
provided by approved external sources are evaluated using a number of approaches; for example, by corroborating the external sources  prices to executed trades, by analyzing the methodology and assumptions used by the external source to
generate a price and/or by evaluating how active the third-party pricing source (or originating sources used by the third-party pricing source) is in the market. Based on this analysis, VRG generates a ranking of the observable market data to ensure
that the highest-ranked market data source is used to validate the business unit s fair value of financial instruments.         
  For financial instruments categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, VRG reviews the business unit s valuation
techniques to ensure these are consistent with market participant assumptions.            The results of this independent price verification and any adjustments made by VRG to the fair value generated by the business units are presented to management of the Company s three business
segments ( i.e. , Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management), the CFO and the Chief Risk Officer on a regular basis.         
   Review of New Level 3 Transactions.     VRG reviews the models and valuation methodology used to price all new
material Level 3 transactions, and both FCG and MRD management must approve the fair value of the trade that is initially recognized.         
  For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see
Note 3.             Offsetting of Derivative Instruments.    
        In connection with its derivative activities, the Company
generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral agreements with its counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the right, in the event of a default by the counterparty, to net a counterparty s rights and
obligations under the agreement and to liquidate and set off collateral against any net amount owed by the counterparty.         
  However, in certain circumstances: the Company may not have such an agreement in place; the relevant insolvency regime may not support the
enforceability of the master netting agreement or collateral agreement; or the Company may not have sought legal advice to support the enforceability of the agreement. In cases where the Company has not determined an agreement to be enforceable, the
related amounts are not offset in the tabular disclosures (see Note 4).            The Company s policy is generally to receive securities and cash posted as collateral (with rights of rehypothecation), irrespective of the enforceability determination regarding the master netting
and collateral agreement. In certain cases, the Company may agree for such collateral to be posted to a third-party custodian under a control agreement that enables it to take control of such collateral in the event of a counterparty default. The
enforceability of the master netting agreement is taken into account in the Company s risk management practices and application of counterparty credit limits.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   For information related to offsetting of derivatives and certain collateral
transactions, see Notes 4 and 6, respectively.             Hedge
Accounting.             The Company applies hedge
accounting using various derivative financial instruments for the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges); and hedges of net investments in foreign
operations whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges). These financial instruments are included within Trading assets Derivative and other contracts or Trading
liabilities Derivative and other contracts in the consolidated statements of financial condition.         
  For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other procedures to ensure the ongoing validity of the
hedges are performed at least monthly.              Fair
Value Hedges Interest Rate Risk.              The
Company s designated fair value hedges consisted primarily of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate senior long-term borrowings. The Company uses regression analysis to
perform an ongoing prospective and retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships. A hedging relationship is deemed effective if the fair values of the hedging instrument (derivative) and the hedged item (debt
liability) change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%. The Company considers the impact of valuation adjustments related to its own credit spreads and counterparty credit spreads to determine whether they would cause the hedging relationship to
be ineffective.            For qualifying fair value hedges
of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense.
When a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the remaining life of the liability using the effective interest method.   
          Net Investment Hedges.     
        The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage
the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations. To the extent that the notional amounts of the hedging instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged and the underlying exchange
rate of the derivative hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional currency of the investee and the parent s functional currency, no hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings. If these exchange rates are not the
same, the Company uses regression analysis to assess the prospective and retrospective effectiveness of the hedge relationships, and any ineffectiveness is recognized in Interest income. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in
foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ). The forward points on the hedging instruments are excluded from hedge effectiveness testing and are recorded in
Interest income.            For further information on
derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.         
   Transfers of Financial Assets.          
  Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when the Company has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Any
related gain or loss on sale is recorded in Net revenues. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are treated as a collateralized financing, in certain cases referred to as  failed sales.  Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Note 6). Securities purchased under agreements to resell ( reverse repurchase agreements ) and Securities sold
under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ) are carried on the consolidated statements of financial condition at the amounts of cash paid or received, plus accrued interest, except for certain repurchase agreements for which
the Company has elected the   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

fair value option (see Note 3). Where appropriate, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. Securities borrowed and
securities loaned are recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received.             Premises, Equipment and Software Costs.             Premises, equipment and software costs consist of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, computer and communications equipment, power generation assets, terminals, pipelines and software
(externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises, equipment and software costs are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the
estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: buildings 39 years; furniture and fixtures 7 years; computer and communications equipment 3 to 9 years; power generation assets 15 to 29 years;
and terminals, pipelines and equipment 3 to 30 years. Estimated useful lives for software costs are generally 3 to 10 years.         
  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of
the lease, but generally not exceeding: 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.         
  Premises, equipment and software costs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset s
carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with current accounting guidance.             Income Taxes.             The Company accounts for income tax expense (benefit) using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based upon the temporary differences between
the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and
liabilities is recognized in income tax expense (benefit) in the period that includes the enactment date.         
  The Company recognizes net deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In
making such a determination, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent
operations. If the Company determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the
provision for income taxes.            Uncertain tax
positions are recorded on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) the Company determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those
tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Company recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as provision for income taxes.             Earnings per Common Share.             Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing earnings available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Earnings available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders represents net income applicable to Morgan Stanley reduced by preferred stock dividends and allocations of earnings to participating securities. Common shares outstanding include
common stock and vested restricted stock units ( RSUs ) where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement eligibility requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and are included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method. Share-based payment awards that pay dividend equivalents subject to vesting are not deemed
participating securities and are included in diluted shares outstanding (if dilutive) under the treasury stock method.         
  The Company has granted performance-based stock units ( PSUs ) that vest and convert to shares of common stock only if it
satisfies predetermined performance and market goals. Since the issuance of the shares is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, the PSUs are included in diluted EPS based on the number of shares (if any) that would be issuable if
the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period.            For the calculation of basic and diluted EPS, see Note 16.             Deferred Compensation.               Stock-Based Compensation.                   The Company measures compensation cost for stock-based awards at fair value and recognizes compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company determines the fair value of
RSUs (including RSUs with non-market performance conditions) based on the grant-date fair value of its common stock, measured as the volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. RSUs with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo
valuation model. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the single grant life method. Under the single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted average
expected option life.            Compensation expense for
stock-based compensation awards is recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. Compensation expense for awards with performance conditions is recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance condition at each reporting date.
Compensation expense for awards with market-based conditions is recognized irrespective of the probability of the market condition being achieved and is not reversed if the market condition is not met.   
        The Company recognizes the expense for stock-based awards
over the requisite service period. These awards generally contain clawback and cancellation provisions. Certain awards provide the Company discretion to cancel all or a portion of the award under specified circumstances. Compensation expense for
those awards is adjusted to fair value based on the Company s common stock price or the relevant valuation model, as appropriate, until conversion, exercise or expiration. For anticipated year-end stock-based awards granted to employees
expected to be retirement-eligible under award terms that do not contain a future service requirement, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the calendar year preceding the grant date. The Company believes that
this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.         
    Employee Stock Trusts.          
        The Company maintains and utilizes at its discretion, trusts,
referred to as the  Employee stock trusts,  in connection with certain stock-based compensation plans. The assets of the Employee stock trusts are consolidated and, as such, are accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock, where
the shares of common stock outstanding are offset by an equal amount in Common stock issued to employee stock trusts. The Company uses the grant-date fair value of stock-based compensation as the basis for recognition of the assets in the Employee
stock trusts. Subsequent changes in the fair value are not recognized as the Company s stock-based compensation plans do not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company s common
stock.              Deferred Cash-Based
Compensation.                   The Company
also maintains various deferred cash-based compensation plans for the benefit of certain current and former employees that provide a return to the participating employees based upon the performance of various referenced

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

investments. The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge its obligations under its deferred cash-based compensation
plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues.         
  Compensation expense for deferred cash-based compensation plans is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted, adjusted
for upward and downward changes in the fair value of the referenced investments. For unvested awards, the expense is recognized over the service period using the graded vesting attribution method. Changes in compensation expense resulting from
changes in the fair value of the referenced investments will generally be offset by changes in the fair value of investments made by the Company. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate revenue recognition of gains and losses
on the Company s investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period. For vested awards with only notional earnings on the referenced investments, the expense is fully recognized in the current
period.             Translation of Foreign Currencies.    
        Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar
functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and amounts recognized in the income statement are translated at the rate of exchange on the respective date of recognition for each amount. Gains or losses resulting from
translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in AOCI, a separate component of Morgan Stanley Shareholders  equity on the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Gains or losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are included in net income.             Goodwill and Intangible Assets.             The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is
generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. For both the annual and interim tests, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a
determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value
of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test.
Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be
impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined
that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the
reporting units.            The estimated fair values are
generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate price-to-book and price-to-earnings multiples of certain comparable companies.            Goodwill is not amortized and is reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances
exist) for impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income. There are no indefinite-lived
intangible assets for years 2015 and 2014.             Investment
Securities Available for Sale and Held to Maturity.             AFS securities are reported at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition with unrealized gains and losses reported in AOCI, net of tax. Interest and dividend income, including
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

included in Interest income in the consolidated statements of income. Realized gains and losses on AFS securities are reported in the consolidated statements of income (see Note 5). The Company
utilizes the  first-in, first-out  method as the basis for determining the cost of AFS securities.         
  Held to maturity ( HTM ) securities are reported at amortized cost in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Interest income, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on HTM securities, is included in Interest income in the consolidated statements of income.   
          Other-than-temporary impairment.     
             AFS debt securities and HTM securities
with a current fair value less than their amortized cost are analyzed as part of the Company s periodic assessment of temporary versus other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) at the individual security level. A temporary impairment
is recognized in AOCI. OTTI is recognized in the consolidated statements of income with the exception of the non-credit portion related to a debt security that the Company does not intend to sell and is not likely to be required to sell, which is
recognized in AOCI.            For AFS debt securities that
the Company either has the intent to sell or that the Company is likely to be required to sell before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the impairment is considered other-than-temporary.            For those AFS debt securities that the Company does not have the intent to sell or is not likely to be required
to sell, and for all HTM securities, the Company evaluates whether it expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of those AFS debt securities or HTM
securities, the impairment is considered other-than-temporary and the Company determines what portion of the impairment relates to a credit loss and what portion relates to non-credit factors.            A credit loss exists if the present value of cash flows expected to be collected (discounted at the implicit
interest rate at acquisition of the security or discounted at the effective yield for securities that incorporate changes in prepayment assumptions) is less than the amortized cost basis of the security. Changes in prepayment assumptions alone are
not considered to result in a credit loss. When determining if a credit loss exists, the Company considers relevant information including the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis; adverse
conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or geographic area; changes in the financial condition of the issuer of the security, or in the case of an asset-backed debt security, changes in the financial condition of the underlying
loan obligors; the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security; the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future; failure of the issuer of the
security to make scheduled interest or principal payments; any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency; and recoveries or additional declines in fair value after the balance sheet date. When estimating the present value of expected
cash flows, information includes the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, financial condition of the issuer(s), expected defaults and the value of any underlying collateral.   
        For AFS equity securities, the Company considers various
factors, including the intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value in evaluating whether an OTTI exists. If the equity security is considered
other-than-temporarily impaired, the entire OTTI ( i.e. , the difference between the fair value recorded on the balance sheet and the cost basis) will be recognized in the consolidated statements of income.   
         Loans.             The Company accounts for loans based on the following categories: loans held for investment; loans held for
sale; and loans at fair value.              Loans Held
for Investment.              Loans held for investment
are reported as outstanding principal adjusted for any charge-offs, the allowance for loan losses, any deferred fees or costs for originated loans, and any unamortized premiums or discounts for purchased loans.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Interest Income .    Interest income on performing loans held
for investment is accrued and recognized as interest income at the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or premiums, as well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are amortized into interest income over the life of the loan to
produce a level rate of return.             Allowance for
Loan Losses .    The allowance for loan losses estimates probable losses related to loans specifically identified for impairment in addition to the probable losses inherent in the held for investment loan portfolio.
           The Company utilizes the U.S. banking
regulators  definition of criticized exposures, which consist of the special mention substandard, doubtful and loss categories as credit quality indicators. For further information on the credit indicators, see Note 7. Substandard loans are
regularly reviewed for impairment. Factors considered by management when determining impairment include payment status, fair value of collateral, and probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. The impairment
analysis required depends on the nature and type of loans. Loans classified as Doubtful or Loss are considered impaired.         
  There are two components of the allowance for loan losses: the specific allowance component and the inherent allowance component.
           The specific allowance component of the allowance
for loan losses is used to estimate probable losses for non-homogeneous exposures that have been specifically identified for impairment analysis by the Company and determined to be impaired. When a loan is specifically identified for impairment, the
impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the
loan is collateral dependent. If the present value of the expected future cash flows (or alternatively, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral) is less than the recorded investment in the loan, then the Company
recognizes an allowance and a charge to the provision for loan losses within Other revenues.            The inherent allowance component of the allowance for loan losses is used to estimate the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and includes non-homogeneous loans that have not been identified as
impaired and portfolios of smaller balance homogeneous loans. The Company maintains methodologies by loan product for calculating an allowance for loan losses that estimates the inherent losses in the loan portfolio. Generally, inherent losses in
the portfolio for non-impaired loans are estimated using statistical analysis and judgment around the exposure at default, the probability of default and the loss given default. Qualitative and environmental factors such as economic and business
conditions, nature and volume of the portfolio and lending terms and volume and severity of past due loans may also be considered in the calculations. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level reasonable to ensure that it can adequately
absorb the estimated probable losses inherent in the portfolio. The Company recognizes an allowance and a charge to the provision for loan losses within Other revenues.   
         Troubled Debt
Restructurings .    The Company may modify the terms of certain loans for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties by granting one or more concessions that the Company would not otherwise
consider. Such modifications are accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ). A loan that has been modified in a TDR is generally considered to be impaired and is evaluated for the extent of impairment using the
Company s specific allowance methodology. TDRs are also generally classified as nonaccrual and may only be returned to accrual status after considering the borrower s sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period.   
         Nonaccrual Loans .    The Company
places loans on nonaccrual status if principal or interest is past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest is in doubt, unless the obligation is well-secured and in the process of collection. A loan is considered past
due when a payment due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement has not been remitted by the borrower. Substandard loans, if identified as impaired, are categorized as nonaccrual. Loans classified as Doubtful or Loss are categorized
as nonaccrual.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   Payments received on nonaccrual loans held for investment are applied to principal if
there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of principal ( i.e ., cost recovery method). If collection of the principal of nonaccrual loans held for investment is not in doubt, interest income is recognized on a cash basis. If neither
principal nor interest collection is in doubt, loans are on accrual status and interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. Loans that are on nonaccrual status may not be restored to accrual status until all delinquent
principal and/or interest has been brought current after a reasonable period of performance, typically a minimum of six months.         
   Charge-offs .    The Company charges off a loan in the period that it is deemed uncollectible and records a
reduction in the allowance for loan losses and the balance of the loan. In general, any portion of the recorded investment in a collateral dependent loan (including any capitalized accrued interest, net deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized
premium or discount) in excess of the fair value of the collateral that can be identified as uncollectible, and is therefore deemed a confirmed loss, is charged off against the allowance for loan losses. A loan is collateral-dependent if the
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the sale or operation of the underlying collateral. In addition, for loan transfers from loans held for investment to loans held for sale, at the time of transfer, any reduction in the loan
value is reflected as a charge-off of the recorded investment, resulting in a new cost basis.             Loan Commitments .    The Company records the liability and related expense for the credit exposure related to commitments to fund loans that will be held for investment in a
manner similar to outstanding loans disclosed above. The analysis also incorporates a credit conversion factor, which is the expected utilization of the undrawn commitment. The liability is recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses in the
consolidated statements of financial condition, and the expense is recorded in Other non-interest expenses in the consolidated statements of income. For more information regarding loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees,
see Note 12.              Loans Held for Sale.
             Loans held for sale are measured at the
lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in Other revenues. The Company determines the valuation allowance on an individual loan basis, except for residential mortgage loans for which the valuation allowance is determined at the
loan product level. Any decreases in fair value below the initial carrying amount and any recoveries in fair value up to the initial carrying amount are recorded in Other revenues. However, increases in fair value above initial carrying value are
not recognized.            Interest income on loans held for
sale is accrued and recognized based on the contractual rate of interest. Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts or premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the related loan is sold. The deferred fees and discounts
or premiums are an adjustment to the basis of the loan and, therefore, are included in the periodic determination of the lower of cost or fair value adjustments and/or the gain or loss recognized at the time of sale.   
        Loans held for sale are subject to the nonaccrual policies
described above. Because loans held for sale are recognized at the lower of cost or fair value, the allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies does not apply to these loans.   
          Loans at Fair Value.     
        Loans for which the fair value option is elected are carried
at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. Loans carried at fair value are not evaluated for purposes of recording an allowance for loan losses. For further information on loans carried at fair value and classified as Trading
assets and Trading liabilities ,  see Note 3.            For further information on loans, see Note 7.             Accounting Standards Adopted.               Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings and Disclosures.           
  In June 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued an accounting update requiring repurchase-to-maturity
transactions be accounted for as secured borrowings consistent with the accounting for other repurchase agreements.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

This accounting update also requires separate accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same counterparty (a repurchase
financing), which will result in secured borrowing accounting for the repurchase agreement. This guidance became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2015. In addition, new disclosures are required for sales of financial assets where
the Company retains substantially all the exposure throughout the term and for the collateral pledged and remaining maturity of repurchase and securities lending agreements, which were effective January 1, 2015 and April 1, 2015,
respectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. For further information on the adoption of this guidance, see Notes 6 and 13.   
          Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That
Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent).              In May 2015, the FASB issued an accounting update that removes the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured at net asset value
( NAV ) per share, or its equivalent using the practical expedient. The Company adopted this guidance retrospectively during the second quarter of 2015, as early adoption is permitted. For further information on the adoption of this
guidance, see Note 3.         
     3.    Fair Values.              Fair Value Measurements.          
   Valuation Techniques for Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis.    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

Trading Assets and Trading Liabilities    

U.S. Government and Agency Securities    

U.S. Treasury Securities   

Fair value is determined using quoted market prices; valuation adjustments are not applied.  

Generally Level 1    

U.S. Agency Securities   

Composed of three main categories consisting of:  
  1. Agency-issued debt     -  Non-callable agency-issued debt securities are generally valued using quoted market prices.     -  Callable agency-issued debt securities are valued by benchmarking model-derived prices to quoted market prices and trade data for identical or comparable securities.  
  2. Agency mortgage pass-through pool securities     -  Fair value is model-driven based on spreads of the comparable to-be-announced security.  
  3. Collateralized mortgage obligations     -  Fair value is determined based on quoted market prices and trade data adjusted by subsequent changes in related indices for identical or comparable securities.   

Generally Level 1 actively traded non-callable agency-issued debt securities        
    Generally Level 2 callable agency-issued debt securities, agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and collateralized
mortgage obligations    
 
     Other Sovereign Government Obligations    

Fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets when available.  

Generally Level 1  
          Level 2 if the market is less active
or prices are dispersed             Level
3 in instances where the inputs are unobservable     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

Corporate and Other Debt    

State and Municipal Securities   

Fair value is determined using:  
  -  recently executed transactions  
  -  market price quotations  
  -  pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or CDS spreads
and volatility   

Generally Level 2    
 
    Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities ( RMBS ), Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities ( CMBS ) and other
Asset-Backed Securities ( ABS )   

RMBS, CMBS and other ABS may be valued based on price or spread data obtained from observed transactions or independent
external parties such as vendors or brokers.           When position-specific external price data are not observable, the fair value determination may require benchmarking to similar instruments, and/or analyzing expected credit losses, default and recovery
rates, and/or applying discounted cash flow techniques. In evaluating the fair value of each security, the Company considers security collateral-specific attributes, including payment priority, credit enhancement levels, type of collateral,
delinquency rates and loss severity. In addition, for RMBS borrowers, Fair Isaac Corporation ( FICO ) scores and the level of documentation for the loan are considered.           Market standard models, such as Intex, Trepp or others, may be deployed to model the specific collateral
composition and cash flow structure of each transaction. Key inputs to these models are market spreads, forecasted credit losses, and default and prepayment rates for each asset category.  
        Valuation levels of RMBS and CMBS indices are
used as an additional data point for benchmarking purposes or to price outright index positions.        
   Auction Rate Securities ( ARS )   
        The Company primarily holds investments in
Student Loan Auction Rate Securities ( SLARS ) and Municipal Auction Rate Securities ( MARS ), which are floating rate instruments for which the rates reset through periodic auctions. SLARS are ABS backed by pools of student
loans. MARS are municipal bonds often wrapped by municipal bond insurance.           The fair value of ARS is primarily determined using recently executed transactions and market price quotations obtained from independent external parties such as vendors and brokers, where available. The
Company uses an internally developed methodology to discount for the lack of liquidity and non-performance risk where independent external market data are not available.           Inputs that impact the valuation of SLARS are:  
         independent
external market data      recently executed transactions of comparable ARS  
   underlying collateral types  
   level of seniority in the capital structure  
   amount of leverage in each structure  
   credit rating and liquidity considerations   

Generally Level 2             Level 3 - if external prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable or if the comparability assessment involves significant subjectivity related to property type differences, cash
flows, performance and other inputs              

Generally Level 2 - as the valuation technique relies on observable external
data     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

Inputs that impact the valuation of MARS are:  
         recently executed
transactions      the maximum rate  
   quality of underlying issuers/insurers  
   evidence of issuer calls/prepayment  
        SLARS and MARS are presented within ABS and State and
municipal securities, respectively, in the fair value hierarchy table.   

Corporate Bonds   

Fair value is determined using:  
  -  recently executed transactions  
  -  market price quotations (where observable)  
  -  bond spreads  
  -  CDS spreads  
  -  at the money volatility and/or volatility skew obtained from independent external
parties such as vendors and brokers adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments        
  The spread data used are for the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that reference a
comparable issuer are used. When position-specific external price data are not observable, fair value is determined based on either benchmarking to similar instruments or cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name CDS spreads and
recovery rates as significant inputs.   

Generally Level 2             Level 3 - if prices, spreads or any of the other aforementioned key inputs are unobservable    
 
    Collateralized Debt Obligations ( CDO ) and Collateralized Loan Obligations
( CLO )   

The Company holds cash CDOs/CLOs that typically reference a tranche of an
underlying synthetic portfolio of single name CDS spreads collateralized by corporate bonds ( credit-linked notes ) or cash portfolio of asset-backed securities/loans ( asset-backed CDOs/CLOs ).  
        Credit correlation, a primary input used to
determine the fair value of credit-linked notes, is usually unobservable and derived using a benchmarking technique. The other credit-linked note model inputs such as credit spreads, including collateral spreads, and interest rates are typically
observable.           Asset-backed CDOs/CLOs
are valued based on an evaluation of the market and model input parameters sourced from similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary market activity. Each asset-backed CDO/CLO position is evaluated independently taking into consideration
available comparable market levels, underlying collateral performance and pricing, deal structures and liquidity.   

Level 2 - when either the credit correlation input is
insignificant or comparable market transactions are observable             Level 3 - when either the credit correlation input is deemed to be significant or comparable market transactions are unobservable    
 
    Loans and Lending Commitments   

Corporate Loans and Lending
Commitments            Fair value of
corporate loans is determined using:     -  recently executed
transactions     -  market price quotations (where observable)  
  -  implied yields from comparable debt  
  -  market observable CDS spread levels obtained from independent external parties such
as vendors and brokers adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments, along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable   

Level 2 - if value based on observable market data for identical or comparable
instruments             Level
3 - in instances where prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

The fair value of contingent corporate lending commitments is determined by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price
based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of loans and lending commitments also takes into account fee income that is considered an attribute of the contract.   

Mortgage Loans   
        Fair value is determined using observable prices
based on transactional data or third-party pricing for identical or comparable instruments, when available.        
  Where position-specific external prices are not observable, fair value is estimated based on benchmarking to prices and rates observed in
the primary market for similar loan or borrower types or based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and
discount rates commensurate with the risks involved or a methodology that utilizes the capital structure and credit spreads of recent comparable securitization transactions.   

Level 2 - if value is based on observable market data for identical or comparable instruments  
          Level 3 - if observable prices are
not available due to the subjectivity involved in the comparability assessment related to mortgage loan vintage, geographical concentration, prepayment speed and projected loss assumptions    
 
   Corporate Equities   

Exchange-Traded Equity Securities            Fair value is generally determined based on quoted prices from the exchange. To the extent these securities are
actively traded, valuation adjustments are not applied.            Unlisted Equity Securities            Fair value is determined based on an assessment of each underlying security, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and market-based information,
including comparable company transactions, trading multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors.   

Level 1 - if actively
traded             Level 2 or Level
3 - if not actively traded              
                 
          Generally Level 3    

Fund Units         
  Listed fund units are generally marked to the exchange-traded price.           Listed fund units if not actively traded and unlisted fund units are generally marked to NAV.   

Level 1 - listed fund units if actively traded on an
exchange             Certain fund units
that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.    
 
     Derivative and Other Contracts    

Listed Derivative Contracts   

Listed derivatives that are actively traded are valued based on quoted prices from the exchange.  
        Listed derivatives that are not actively traded
are valued using the same approaches as those applied to OTC derivatives.   

Level 1 - listed derivatives that are actively traded  
          Level 2 - listed derivatives that are not
actively traded     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

OTC Derivative Contracts   
        OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap
and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.        
  Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be either observed or modeled
using a series of techniques and model inputs from comparable benchmarks, including closed-form analytic formulas, such as the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail
material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swaps, certain option contracts and certain
CDS. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry.  
        Other derivative products, including complex
products that have become illiquid, require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes certain types of interest
rate derivatives with both volatility and correlation exposure and credit derivatives, including CDS on certain mortgage-backed or asset-backed securities and basket CDS, where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable.  
        Derivative interests in CDS on certain
mortgage-backed or asset-backed securities, for which observability of external price data is limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market and model input parameters sourced from similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary
market activity. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration available comparable market levels as well as a cash synthetic basis or the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various
cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures ( e.g ., non-amortizing reference obligations, call features, etc.) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination
of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires significant judgment.        
  For basket CDS, the correlation input between reference credits is unobservable for each specific swap or position and is benchmarked to
standardized proxy baskets for which correlation data are available. The other model inputs such as credit spread, interest rates and recovery rates are observable.  
        The Company trades various derivative structures
with commodity underlyings. Depending on the type of structure,   

Generally Level 2 - OTC derivative products valued using pricing models; basket CDS if the correlation input
is not deemed to be significant; commodity derivatives             Level 3 - OTC derivative products with significant unobservable inputs; basket CDS if the correlation input is deemed to be significant; commodity derivatives in instances where significant inputs
are unobservable           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity
underlier price curves, implied volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the implied correlation between these inputs. The fair value of these products is determined using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide
values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input
values.           For further information on
the valuation techniques for OTC derivative products, see Note 2.           For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.   

Investments    

Investments include direct investments in equity securities as well as
investments in private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans.  
        Direct investments are presented in the fair
value hierarchy table as Principal investments and Other. Initially, the transaction price is generally considered by the Company as the exit price and is its best estimate of fair value.  
        After initial recognition, in determining the
fair value of non-exchange-traded internally and externally managed funds, the Company generally considers the NAV of the fund provided by the fund manager to be the best estimate of fair value. For non-exchange-traded investments either held
directly or held within internally managed funds, fair value after initial recognition is based on an assessment of each underlying investment, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and
market-based information, including comparable company transactions, trading multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. Exchange-traded direct equity investments are generally valued based on quoted prices from the
exchange.   

Level 1 - exchange-traded direct equity investments in an active
market             Level 2 -
non-exchange-traded direct equity investments and investments in private equity and real estate funds if valued based on rounds of financing or third-party transactions; exchange-traded direct equity investments if not actively traded  
          Level 3 - non-exchange-traded direct
equity investments and investments in private equity and real estate funds where rounds of financing or third-party transactions are not available        
  Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share are not classified in the fair value hierarchy. For additional disclosure
about such investments, see  Fair Value of Investments Measured at Net Asset Value  herein.    
 
     Physical Commodities    

The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products,
natural gas, base and precious metals, and agricultural products.        
  Fair value is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices.   

Generally Level 2  
          Level 3 - in instances where significant
inputs are unobservable     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique    

Valuation Hierarchy Classification     

Investment Securities    

AFS Securities   

AFS securities are composed of U.S. government and agency securities ( e.g. , U.S.
Treasury securities, agency-issued debt, agency mortgage pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations), CMBS, Federal Family Education Loan Program ( FFELP ) student loan ABS, auto loan ABS, corporate bonds, CLOs and
actively traded equity securities.           For further information on the
determination of fair value, refer to the corresponding asset/liability valuation technique described herein.           For further information on AFS securities, see Note 5.   

Generally Level 1 - actively traded U.S. Treasury securities,
non-callable agency-issued debt securities and equity securities             Generally Level 2 - callable agency-issued debt securities, agency mortgage pass-through securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, CMBS, FFELP student loan ABS, auto loan ABS, corporate
bonds and CLOs    
 
     Deposits    

Certificates of Deposit   

Generally Level 2    

The Company
issues Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insured certificates of deposit that pay either fixed coupons or that have repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices or currencies. The fair value
of these certificates of deposit is determined using valuation models that incorporate observable inputs referencing identical or comparable securities, including:  
   prices to which the deposits are linked  
   interest rate yield curves  
   option volatility and currency rates  
   equity prices  
   the impact of the Company s own credit spreads, adjusted for the impact of the FDIC insurance, which
is based on vanilla deposit issuance rates   

Short-Term Borrowings/Long-Term Borrowings    

Structured Notes   

Generally Level 2    

The Company
issues structured notes that have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities.        
  Fair value of structured notes is determined using valuation models for the derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable
inputs referencing identical or comparable securities, including:            prices to which the notes are linked      interest
rate yield curves      option volatility and currency  
   commodity or equity prices  
        Independent, external and traded prices for the notes are considered as well.
The impact of the Company s own credit spreads is also included based on observed secondary bond market spreads.   

Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold under Agreements
to Repurchase    

Fair value is computed using a standard cash flow discounting methodology.  
        The inputs to the valuation include contractual cash flows and collateral
funding spreads, which are estimated using various benchmarks, interest rate yield curves and option volatilities.   

Generally Level 2  
          Level 3 - in instances where the
unobservable inputs are deemed significant    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(2)  
    For trading purposes, the Company holds or sells short equity securities issued by entities in diverse industries and of varying sizes.

(3)  
    For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral
netting are included in the column titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that shared level. For
further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.      

(4)  
    Amounts exclude certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share, which are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.
At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the fair value of these investments was $3,843 million and $5,009 million, respectively. For additional disclosure about such investments, see  Fair Value of Investments Measured at Net
Asset Value  herein.      

(5)  
    The balance of Level 3 asset derivative equity contracts increased by $57 million with a corresponding decrease in the balance of Level 2 asset
derivative equity contracts, and the balance of Level 3 liability derivative equity contracts increased by $842 million with a corresponding decrease in the balance of Level 2 liability derivative equity contracts to correct the fair value level
assigned to these contracts at December 31, 2014. The total amount of asset and liability derivative equity contracts remained unchanged.            
   Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   .        
        The following tables present additional information about
Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains
(losses) for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not reflect the related realized and unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that have been classified by the Company within the Level 1 and/or
Level 2 categories.            Additionally, both observable
and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions that the Company has classified within the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) during the period for assets and liabilities within the Level 3
category presented in the tables below may include changes in fair value during the period that were attributable to both observable ( e.g. , changes in market interest rates) and unobservable ( e.g. , changes in unobservable long-dated
volatilities) inputs.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Roll-forward of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
Basis.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Trading revenues in the consolidated statements of income except for Trading
assets Investments, which is included in Investments revenues.      

(2)  
    Loan originations are included in purchases.      

(3)  
    Net derivative and other contracts represent Trading assets Derivative and other contracts, net of Trading liabilities Derivative and
other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.      

(4)  
    Net liability Level 3 derivative equity contracts increased by $785 million to correct the fair value level assigned to these contracts at
December 31, 2014. The total amount of derivative equity contracts remained unchanged at December 31, 2014.      

(5)  
    During 2014, the Company incurred a charge of approximately $468 million related to the implementation of FVA, which was recognized in Trading
revenues. For further information on the implementation of FVA, see Note 2.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
     Long-term borrowings   .         
        During 2013, the Company reclassified approximately $1.3
billion of certain long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, from Level 3 to Level 2. The Company reclassified the structured notes as the unobservable embedded derivative component became insignificant to the overall valuation.   
         Significant Unobservable Inputs Used in Recurring Level 3 Fair Value
Measurements.             The disclosures below provide
information on the valuation techniques, significant unobservable inputs, and their ranges and averages for each major category of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis with a significant Level 3 balance. The level of
aggregation and breadth of products cause the range of inputs to be wide and not evenly distributed across the inventory. Further, the range of unobservable inputs may differ across firms in the financial services industry because of diversity in
the types of products included in each firm s inventory. The following disclosures also include qualitative information on the sensitivity of the fair value measurements to changes in the significant unobservable inputs.   
         Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements Valuation
Techniques and Sensitivity of Unobservable Inputs.          

Balance at December 31, 2015   

Valuation Technique(s) /   
   Significant Unobservable Input(s) /       Sensitivity of the Fair Value to Changes       in
the Unobservable Inputs    
      
   Range(1)   

Averages(2)       

(dollars in millions)   

Assets at Fair Value    

Trading assets:   

Corporate and other debt:   

Residential mortgage-backed securities   
      
  $  
  341  

Comparable pricing:   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

0 to 75 points  

32 points  

Commercial mortgage-backed securities   

72  

Comparable pricing:   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

0 to 9 points  

2 points  

Corporate bonds   

267  

Comparable pricing(3):   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

3 to 119 points  

90 points  

Comparable pricing:   

EBITDA multiple / (A)   

7 to 9 times  

8 times  

Structured bond model:   

Discount rate / (C)   

15%  

15%  

Collateralized debt and loan obligations   

430  

Comparable pricing(3):   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

47 to 103 points  

67 points  

Correlation model:   

Credit correlation / (B)   

39% to 60%  

49%  

Loans and lending commitments   

5,936  

Corporate loan model:   

Credit spread / (C)   

250 to 866 bps  

531 bps  

Margin loan model(3):   

Credit spread / (C)(D)   

62 to 499 bps  

145 bps  

Volatility skew / (C)(D)   

14% to 70%  

33%  

Discount rate / (C)(D)   

1% to 4%  

2%  

Option model:   

Volatility skew / (C)   

-1%  

-1%  

Comparable pricing:   

Comparable loan price / (A)   

35 to 100 points  

88 points  

Discounted cash flow:   

Implied weighted average cost of capital / (C)(D)   

6% to 8%  

7%  

Capitalization rate / (C)(D)   

4% to 10%  

4%  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Balance at December 31, 2014   

Valuation Technique(s) /   
   Significant Unobservable Input(s) / Sensitivity of the Fair Value to Changes in the Unobservable
Inputs    
      
   Range(1)   

Averages(2)       

(dollars in millions)   

Assets at Fair Value   

Trading assets:  

Corporate and other debt:   

Residential mortgage-backed securities   
      
  $  
  175  

Comparable pricing:   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

3 to 90 points  

15 points  

Commercial mortgage-backed securities   

96  

Comparable pricing:   

Comparable bond price / (A)   

0 to 7 points  

1 point  

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

bps Basis points.      EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.   

(1)  
    The range of significant unobservable inputs is represented in points, percentages, basis points, times or megawatt hours. Points are a percentage
of par; for example, 75 points would be 75% of par. A basis point equals 1/100th of 1%; for example, 866 bps would equal 8.66%.      

(2)  
    Amounts represent weighted averages except where simple averages and the median of the inputs are provided (see footnote 5 below). Weighted averages
are calculated by weighting each input by the fair value of the respective financial instruments except for collateralized debt and loan obligations, principal investments, other debt, corporate bonds, long-term borrowings and derivative instruments
where some or all inputs are weighted by risk.      

(3)  
    This is the predominant valuation technique for this major asset or liability class.      

(4)  
    Credit valuation adjustments ( CVA ) and FVA are included in the balance but excluded from the Valuation Technique(s) and Significant
Unobservable Input(s) in the table above. CVA is a Level 3 input when the underlying counterparty credit curve is unobservable. FVA is a Level 3 input in its entirety given the lack of observability of funding spreads in the principal market.

(5)  
    The data structure of the significant unobservable inputs used in valuing interest rate contracts, foreign exchange contracts and certain equity
contracts may be in a multi-dimensional form, such as a curve or surface, with risk distributed across the structure. Therefore, a simple average and median, together with the range of data inputs, may be more appropriate measurements than a single
point weighted average.      

(6)  
    Includes derivative contracts with multiple risks ( i.e.,  hybrid products).      

(7)  
    Net liability Level 3 derivative equity contracts increased by $785 million to correct the fair value level assigned to these contracts at
December 31, 2014. This correction did not result in a change to the Valuation Technique(s), Significant Unobservable Inputs, Range or Averages.      
         Sensitivity of the fair value to changes in the
unobservable inputs:    

(A)  
    Significant increase (decrease) in the unobservable input in isolation would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement.

(B)  
    Significant changes in credit correlation may result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. Increasing (decreasing) correlation
drives a redistribution of risk within the capital structure such that junior tranches become less (more) risky and senior tranches become more (less) risky.      

(C)  
    Significant increase (decrease) in the unobservable input in isolation would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement.

(D)  
    There are no predictable relationships between the significant unobservable inputs.      
        The following provides a description of significant
unobservable inputs included in the December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 tables above for all major categories of assets and liabilities:         

Capitalization rate  the ratio between net operating income produced by an asset and its market value at the projected disposition date.

Cash synthetic basis  the measure of the price differential between cash financial instruments and their synthetic derivative-based
equivalents. The range disclosed in the table above signifies the number of points by which the synthetic bond equivalent price is higher than the quoted price of the underlying cash bonds.      

Comparable bond price  a pricing input used when prices for the identical instrument are not available. Significant subjectivity may be
involved when fair value is determined using pricing data available for comparable instruments. Valuation using comparable instruments can be done by calculating an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a comparable
bond, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to derive a value for the bond. The adjustment to yield (or spread) should account for relevant differences in the bonds such as maturity or credit quality.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the
comparable instrument and bond being valued in order to establish the value of the bond. Additionally, as the probability of default increases for a given bond ( i.e. , as the bond becomes more distressed), the valuation of that bond will
increasingly reflect its expected recovery level assuming default. The decision to use price-to-price or yield/spread comparisons largely reflects trading market convention for the financial instruments in question. Price-to-price comparisons are
primarily employed for RMBS, CMBS, ABS, CDOs, CLOs, Other debt, interest rate contracts, foreign exchange contracts, Other secured financings and distressed corporate bonds. Implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) is utilized predominately
for non-distressed corporate bonds, loans and credit contracts.         

Comparable equity price  a price derived from equity raises, share buybacks and external bid levels, etc. A discount or premium may be
included in the fair value estimate.            

Correlation  a pricing input where the payoff is driven by more than one underlying risk. Correlation is a measure of the relationship
between the movements of two variables ( i.e ., how the change in one variable influences a change in the other variable). Credit correlation, for example, is the factor that describes the relationship between the probability of individual
entities to default on obligations and the joint probability of multiple entities to default on obligations.            

Credit spread  the difference in yield between different securities due to differences in credit quality. The credit spread reflects the
additional net yield an investor can earn from a security with more credit risk relative to one with less credit risk. The credit spread of a particular security is often quoted in relation to the yield on a credit risk-free benchmark security or
reference rate, typically either U.S. Treasury or London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).            

EBITDA multiple / Exit multiple  the ratio of the Enterprise Value to EBITDA, where the Enterprise Value is the aggregate value of equity
and debt minus cash and cash equivalents. The EBITDA multiple reflects the value of the company in terms of its full-year EBITDA, whereas the exit multiple reflects the value of the company in terms of its full-year expected EBITDA at exit. Either
multiple allows comparison between companies from an operational perspective as the effect of capital structure, taxation and depreciation/amortization is excluded.            

Equity alpha  a parameter used in the modeling of equity hybrid prices.      

Funding spread  the difference between the general collateral rate (which refers to the rate applicable to a broad class of U.S. Treasury
issuances) and the specific collateral rate (which refers to the rate applicable to a specific type of security pledged as collateral, such as a municipal bond). Repurchase agreements and certain other secured financings are discounted based on
collateral curves. The curves are constructed as spreads over the corresponding overnight indexed swap ( OIS ) or LIBOR curves, with the short end of the curve representing spreads over the corresponding OIS curves and the long end of the
curve representing spreads over LIBOR.            

Implied weighted average cost of capital ( WACC )  the WACC implied by the current value of equity in a discounted cash flow
model. The model assumes that the cash flow assumptions, including projections, are fully reflected in the current equity value, while the debt to equity ratio is held constant. The WACC theoretically represents the required rate of return to debt
and equity investors.            

Interest rate curve  the term structure of interest rates (relationship between interest rates and the time to maturity) and a
market s measure of future interest rates at the time of observation. An interest rate curve is used to set interest rate and foreign exchange derivative cash flows and is a pricing input used in the discounting of any OTC derivative cash flow.

Price / Book ratio  the ratio used to compare a stock s market value with its book value. The ratio is calculated by dividing the
current closing price of the stock by the latest book value per share. This multiple allows comparison between companies from an operational perspective.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Price / Earnings ratio  the ratio used to measure a company s equity value in relation to its earnings. The ratio is calculated by
dividing the equity value per share by the latest historical or forward-looking earnings per share. The ratio results in a standardized metric that allows comparison between companies, after also considering the effects of different leverage ratios
and taxation rates.            

Volatility  the measure of the variability in possible returns for an instrument given how much that instrument changes in value over
time. Volatility is a pricing input for options, and, generally, the lower the volatility, the less risky the option. The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular option depends on a number of factors, including the nature of the
risk underlying that option ( e.g. , the volatility of a particular underlying equity security may be significantly different from that of a particular underlying commodity index), the tenor and the strike price of the option.

Volatility skew  the measure of the difference in implied volatility for options with identical underliers and expiry dates but with
different strikes. The implied volatility for an option with a strike price that is above or below the current price of an underlying asset will typically deviate from the implied volatility for an option with a strike price equal to the current
price of that same underlying asset.                Fair
Value of Investments Measured at Net Asset Value.              Investments in Certain Funds Measured at NAV per Share.          

(1)  
    Fixed income/credit-related hedge funds, event-driven hedge funds and multi-strategy hedge funds are redeemable at least on a three-month period
basis, primarily with a notice period of 90 days or less. At December 31, 2015, approximately 34% of the fair value amount of long-short equity hedge funds was redeemable at least quarterly, 51% is redeemable every six months and 15% of these
funds have a redemption frequency of greater than six months. At December 31, 2014, approximately 36% of the fair value amount of long-short equity hedge funds was redeemable at least quarterly, 47% is redeemable every six months and 17% of
these funds have a redemption frequency of greater than six months. The notice period for long-short equity hedge funds at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was primarily greater than six months.      
          Private Equity Funds and Real Estate Funds.
              Private Equity
Funds.      Amount includes several private equity funds that pursue multiple strategies, including leveraged buyouts, venture capital, infrastructure growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital. In addition,
the funds may be structured with a focus on specific domestic or foreign geographic regions.             Real Estate Funds.      Amount includes several real estate funds that invest in real estate assets such as commercial office buildings, retail properties, multi-family
residential properties, developments or hotels. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific geographic domestic or foreign regions.         
  Investments in these funds generally are not redeemable due to the closed-ended nature of these funds. Instead, distributions from each
fund will be received as the underlying investments of the funds are disposed and monetized.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Fair Value of Certain Funds Estimated to Be Liquidated Over Time.    
     
            Hedge Funds.
             Investments in hedge funds may be subject
to initial period lock-up restrictions or gates. A hedge fund lock-up provision is a provision that provides that, during a certain initial period, an investor may not make a withdrawal from the fund. The purpose of a gate is to restrict the level
of redemptions that an investor in a particular hedge fund can demand on any redemption date.             Long-Short Equity Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest, long or short, in equities. Equity value and growth hedge funds purchase stocks
perceived to be undervalued and sell stocks perceived to be overvalued.             Fixed Income / Credit-Related Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that employ long-short, distressed or relative value strategies in order to benefit from
investments in undervalued or overvalued securities that are primarily debt or credit related.             Event-Driven Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest in event-driven situations such as mergers, hostile takeovers, reorganizations or leveraged
buyouts. This may involve the simultaneous purchase of stock in companies being acquired and the sale of stock in its acquirer, with the expectation to profit from the spread between the current market price and the ultimate purchase price of the
target company.             Multi-strategy Hedge
Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that pursue multiple strategies to realize short- and long-term gains. Management of the hedge funds has the ability to overweight or underweight different strategies to
best capitalize on current investment opportunities.             Lock-up Restrictions and Gates by Hedge Fund Type.          

(1)  
    Investments representing approximately 12% of the fair value of investments cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been
imposed by the hedge fund manager. The restriction period for these investments subject to an exit restriction was indefinite at December 31, 2015.      

(2)  
    Investments representing approximately 80% of the fair value of investments cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been
imposed by the hedge fund manager. The restriction period for these investments subject to an exit restriction was indefinite at December 31, 2015.      

(3)  
    Investments representing approximately 16% of the fair value of investments cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain
initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period subject to lock-up restrictions was primarily over three years at December 31, 2015.      

(4)  
    Investments representing approximately 3% of the fair value of investments cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been imposed
by the hedge fund manager. The restriction period for these investments subject to an exit restriction was indefinite at December 31, 2015.      
         Fair Value Option.    
        The Company elected the fair value option for certain
eligible instruments that are risk managed on a fair value basis to mitigate income statement volatility caused by measurement basis differences between the elected instruments and their associated risk management transactions or to eliminate
complexities of applying certain accounting models.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Impact on Earnings of Transactions Under the Fair Value Option Election.

(1)  
    Of the total gains (losses) recorded in Trading revenues for short-term and long-term borrowings for 2015, 2014 and 2013, $618 million, $651 million
and $(681) million, respectively, are attributable to changes in the credit quality of the Company and other credit factors, and the respective remainder is attributable to changes in foreign currency rates or interest rates or movements in the
reference price or index for structured notes before the impact of related hedges.            
  In addition to the amounts in the above table, as discussed in Note 2, instruments within Trading assets or Trading liabilities are
measured at fair value. The amounts in the above table are included within Net revenues and do not reflect gains or losses on related hedging instruments, if any.   
         Short-Term and Long-Term Borrowings Measured at Fair Value
on a Recurring Basis.          
           Gains (Losses) due to
Changes in Instrument-Specific Credit Risk.          

(1)  
    The change in the fair value of short-term and long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) includes an adjustment to reflect the change in
credit quality of the Company based upon observations of its secondary bond market spreads and changes in other credit factors.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(2)  
    Loans and other debt instrument-specific credit gains (losses) were determined by excluding the non-credit components of gains and losses, such as
those due to changes in interest rates.      

(3)  
    Gains (losses) on lending commitments were generally determined based on the differential between estimated expected client yields and contractual
yields at each respective period-end.                Net Difference of Contractual Principal Amount Over Fair Value.          

(1)  
    The majority of the difference between principal and fair value amounts for loans and other debt emanates from the distressed debt trading business,
which purchases distressed debt at amounts well below par.      

(3)  
    Short-term and long-term borrowings do not include structured notes where the repayment of the initial principal amount fluctuates based on changes
in the reference price or index.            
  The tables above exclude non-recourse debt from consolidated VIEs, liabilities related to failed sales of financial assets, pledged
commodities and other liabilities that have specified assets attributable to them.             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.          
  Certain assets and liabilities were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables above.   
         Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a
Non-Recurring Basis.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Changes in the fair value of Loans and losses related to Other investments are recorded within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of
income. Losses related to Premises, equipment and software costs, Intangible assets and Other assets are recorded within Other expenses if not held for sale and within Other revenues if held for sale. Losses related to Other liabilities and accrued
expenses are recorded within Other revenues and represent non-recurring fair value adjustments for certain lending commitments designated as held for sale.      

(2)  
    Non-recurring changes in the fair value of loans and lending commitments held for investment or held for sale were calculated using recently
executed transactions; market price quotations; valuation models that incorporate market observable inputs where possible, such as comparable loan or debt prices and credit default swap spread levels adjusted for any basis difference between cash
and derivative instruments; or default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable.      

(3)  
    Losses related to Other investments and Intangible assets were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models and methodologies that
incorporate multiples of certain comparable companies.      

(4)  
    Losses related to Premises, equipment and software costs and Other assets were determined primarily using a default recovery analysis.
              There were no significant
liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during 2013.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value.    
         Valuation Techniques for Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair
Value.          

Asset/Liability    

Valuation Technique     

The following longer dated instruments:  
   Securities purchased under agreements to resell  
   Securities borrowed  
   Securities sold under agreements to repurchase  
   Securities loaned  
   Other secured financings  

Fair value is determined using a standard cash flow discounting
methodology.           The inputs to the
valuation include contractual cash flows and collateral funding spreads, which are estimated using various benchmarks and interest rate yield curves.  

HTM securities   

Fair value is determined using quoted market prices.    
 
    Loans   

The fair value of consumer and residential real estate loans and lending
commitments where position-specific external price data are not observable is determined based on the credit risks of the borrower using a probability of default and loss given default method, discounted at the estimated external cost of funding
level.           The fair value of corporate
loans and lending commitments is determined using the following:      recently executed
transactions      market price quotations (where observable)  
   implied yields from comparable debt  
   market observable credit default swap spread levels along with proprietary valuation models and default
recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable    

Long-term borrowings   

The fair value is generally determined based on transactional data or third-party pricing for identical or comparable
instruments, when available. Where position-specific external prices are not observable, fair value is determined based on current interest rates and credit spreads for debt instruments with similar terms and maturity.    
          The carrying values of the
remaining assets and liabilities not measured at fair value in the tables below approximate fair value due to their short-term nature.         
   Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value.          
  The tables below exclude certain financial instruments such as equity method investments and all non-financial assets and liabilities such
as the value of the long-term relationships with our deposit customers.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Accrued interest, fees, and dividend receivables and payables where carrying value approximates fair value have been excluded.

(2)  
    Amounts include all loans measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.      
        As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014,
notional amounts of approximately $99.5 billion and $86.8 billion, respectively, of the Company s lending commitments were held for investment and held for sale, which are not included in the above table. The estimated fair value of such
lending commitments was a liability of $2,172 million and $1,178 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Had these commitments been accounted for at fair value, $1,791 million would have been categorized in
Level 2 and $381 million in Level 3 as of December 31, 2015, and $928 million would have been categorized in Level 2 and $250 million in Level 3 as of December 31, 2014.   

4.   
     Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.       
        The Company trades and makes markets globally in listed
futures, OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market
bonds and loans, credit indices, asset-backed security indices, property indices, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, and real estate loan products. The Company uses these instruments for market-making, foreign currency exposure
management, and asset and liability management.         
  The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification
of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options).

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis.   
         Fair Value and Notional of Derivative Instruments.    
         Fair Value and Notional of Derivative Assets and Liabilities.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Notional amounts include gross notionals related to open long and short futures contracts of $1,009.5 billion and $653.0 billion, respectively. The
unsettled fair value on these futures contracts (excluded from the table above) of $1,145 million and $437 million is included in Customer and other receivables and Customer and other payables, respectively, in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.      

(2)  
    Notional amounts include gross notionals related to open long and short futures contracts of $685.3 billion and $1,122.3 billion, respectively. The
unsettled fair value on these futures contracts (excluded from the table above) of $472 million and $21 million is included in Customer and other receivables and Customer and other payables, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial
condition.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Offsetting of Derivative Instruments.              Offsetting of Derivative Instruments and Related Collateral.    

(1)  
    Amounts include $4.2 billion of derivative assets and $5.2 billion of derivative liabilities at December 31, 2015 and $6.5 billion of
derivative assets and $6.9 billion of derivative liabilities at December 31, 2014, which are either not subject to master netting agreements or collateral agreements or are subject to such agreements but the Company has not determined the
agreements to be legally enforceable. See also  Fair Value and Notional of Derivative Instruments  herein, for additional disclosure about gross fair values and notionals for derivative instruments by risk type.

(2)  
    Amounts relate to master netting agreements and collateral agreements, that have been determined by the Company to be legally enforceable in the
event of default but where certain other criteria are not met in accordance with applicable offsetting accounting guidance.            
  For information related to offsetting of certain collateralized transactions, see Note 6.   
        At December 31, 2015, cash collateral payables of $86
million and at December 31, 2014, cash collateral receivables and payables of $21 million and $30 million, respectively, were not offset against certain contracts that did not meet the definition of a derivative.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges.          
           Gains (Losses) on
Derivatives Designated as Net Investment Hedges.          
     
           Gains (Losses) on Trading Instruments.             The table below summarizes gains and losses included in Trading revenues in the consolidated statements of income from trading activities. These activities include revenues related to derivative and
non-derivative financial instruments. The Company generally utilizes financial instruments across a variety of product types in connection with their market-making and related risk management strategies. Accordingly, the trading revenues presented
below are not representative of the manner in which the Company manages its business activities and are prepared in a manner similar to the presentation of trading revenues for regulatory reporting purposes.   

(1)  
    Dividend income is included within equity security and index contracts.      

(2)  
    Other contracts represent contracts not reported as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity security and index or credit contracts.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    OTC Derivative Products Trading Assets.    
         Counterparty Credit Rating and Remaining Contract Maturity of the Fair
Value of OTC Derivative Assets.          

(1)  
    Fair values shown represent the Company s net exposure to counterparties related to its OTC derivative products.      

(2)  
    Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department.      

(3)  
    Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and
payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.

(4)  
    Fair value is shown, net of collateral received (primarily cash and U.S. government and agency securities).      
         Credit Risk-Related Contingencies.    
        In connection with certain OTC trading agreements, the
Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a credit rating downgrade of the Company.   
         Net Derivative Liabilities and Collateral Posted.    
        The following table presents the aggregate fair value of
certain derivative contracts that contain credit risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position for which the Company has posted collateral in the normal course of business.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The additional collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a
future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ). The table
below shows the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or exchange and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios based on the relevant
contractual downgrade triggers.             Incremental Collateral or
Termination Payments upon Potential Future Ratings Downgrade.          

(1)  
    Amounts include $1,573 million related to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the
downgraded party must deliver collateral to the other party. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.
               Credit Derivatives and Other Credit
Contracts.             The Company enters into credit
derivatives, principally through credit default swaps, under which it receives or provides protection against the risk of default on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity or entities. A majority of the Company s
counterparties are banks, broker-dealers and insurance and other financial institutions.             Notional and Fair Value of Protection Sold and Protection Purchased through Credit Default Swaps.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Credit Ratings of Reference Obligation and Maturities of Credit Protection Sold.

(1)  
    Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.      

(2)  
    In order to provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of the credit default swaps, a breakdown of credit default swaps
based on the Company s internal credit ratings by investment grade and non-investment grade is provided. During 2015, the Company began utilizing its internal credit ratings as compared with 2014 where external agency ratings, if available,
were utilized. The change in the rating methodology did not have a significant impact on investment grade versus non-investment grade classifications or the fair values.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
     Single Name Credit Default Swaps.     
        A credit default swap protects the buyer against the loss of
principal on a bond or loan in case of a default by the issuer. The protection buyer pays a periodic premium (generally quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. The Company in turn will have to perform under a credit
default swap if a credit event as defined under the contract occurs. Typical credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay and restructuring of the obligations of the referenced entity.
             Index and Basket Credit Default
Swaps.                     Index and
basket credit default swaps are products where credit protection is provided on a portfolio of single name credit default swaps. Generally, in the event of a default on one of the underlying names, the Company will have to pay a pro rata portion of
the total notional amount of the credit default swap.            The Company also enters into tranched index and basket credit default swaps where credit protection is provided on a particular portion of the portfolio loss distribution. The most junior tranches cover
initial defaults, and once losses exceed the notional of the tranche, they are passed on to the next most senior tranche in the capital structure.         
    Credit Protection Sold through CLNs and CDOs.     
        The Company has invested in credit-linked notes
( CLNs ) and CDOs, which are hybrid instruments containing embedded derivatives, in which credit protection has been sold to the issuer of the note. If there is a credit event of a reference entity underlying the instrument, the principal
balance of the note may not be repaid in full to the Company.              Purchased Credit Protection with Identical Underlying Reference Obligations.           
  For single name credit default swaps and non-tranched index and basket credit default swaps, the Company has purchased protection with a
notional amount of approximately $577.7 billion and $731.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, compared with a notional amount of approximately $619.5 billion and $804.7 billion at December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, respectively, of credit protection sold with identical underlying reference obligations.         
  The purchase of credit protection does not represent the sole manner in which the Company risk manages its exposure to credit derivatives.
The Company manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, which include managing the credit and correlation risk across single name, non-tranched indices and baskets, tranched indices and
baskets, and cash positions. Aggregate market risk limits have been established for credit derivatives, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company may also recover amounts on the underlying reference
obligation delivered to the Company under credit default swaps where credit protection was sold.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

5.   
     Investment Securities.             
   AFS and HTM Securities.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    U.S. agency securities are composed of three main categories consisting of agency-issued debt, agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and
collateralized mortgage obligations.      

(2)  
    Amounts are backed by a guarantee from the U.S. Department of Education of at least 95% of the principal balance and interest on such loans.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Fair Value of Investment Securities in an Unrealized Loss Position.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

The Company believes that
there are no securities in an unrealized loss position that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily-impaired at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 for the reasons discussed below.   
        For AFS debt securities, the Company does not intend to sell
the securities and is not likely to be required to sell the securities prior to recovery of amortized cost basis. For AFS and HTM debt securities, the securities have not experienced credit losses as the net unrealized losses reported in the table
above are primarily due to higher interest rates since those securities were purchased. Additionally, the Company does not expect to experience a credit loss based on consideration of the relevant information (as discussed in Note 2), including for
U.S. government and agency securities, the existence of an explicit and implicit guarantee provided by the U.S. government. The risk of credit loss on securities in an unrealized loss position is considered minimal because all of the Company s
agency securities as well as the Company s asset-backed securities, CMBS and CLOs are highly rated and because the Company s corporate bonds are all investment grade.   
        For AFS equity securities, the Company has the intent and
ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Amortized Cost, Fair Value and Annualized Average Yield of Investment Securities by
Contractual Maturity Dates.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

See Note 13 for additional
information on securities issued by VIEs, including U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, non-agency CMBS, auto loan ABS, CLO and FFELP student loan ABS.         
   Gross Realized Gains and Gross Realized (Losses) on Sales of AFS Securities.    
     
          Gross realized gains and
losses are recognized in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.         

6.   
     Collateralized Transactions.             
  The Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to,
among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers  needs and to finance its inventory positions.            The Company manages credit exposure arising from such transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering
into master netting agreements and collateral agreements with counterparties that provide the Company, in the event of a counterparty default (such as bankruptcy or a counterparty s failure to pay or perform), with the right to net a
counterparty s rights and obligations under such agreement and liquidate and set off collateral held by the Company against the net amount owed by the counterparty.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The Company s policy is generally to take possession of securities purchased under
agreements to resell and securities borrowed, and to receive securities and cash posted as collateral (with rights of rehypothecation). In certain cases, the Company may agree for such collateral to be posted to a third-party custodian under a
tri-party arrangement that enables the Company to take control of such collateral in the event of a counterparty default. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable or payable,
including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral as provided under the applicable agreement to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. The risk related to a decline in the market value of collateral
(pledged or received) is managed by setting appropriate market-based haircuts. Increases in collateral margin calls on secured financing due to market value declines may be mitigated by increases in collateral margin calls on reverse repurchase
agreements and securities borrowed transactions with similar quality collateral. Additionally, the Company may request lower quality collateral pledged be replaced with higher quality collateral through collateral substitution rights in the
underlying agreements.            The Company actively
manages its secured financing in a manner that reduces the potential refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets. The Company considers the quality of collateral when negotiating collateral eligibility with counterparties, as
defined by its fundability criteria. The Company utilizes shorter-term secured financing for highly liquid assets and has established longer tenor limits for less liquid assets, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption.
            Offsetting of Certain Collateralized
Transactions.          

(1)  
    Amounts include $2.6 billion of Securities purchased under agreements to resell, $3.0 billion of Securities borrowed and $4.9 billion of Securities
sold under agreements to repurchase at December 31, 2015 and $3.9 billion of Securities purchased under agreements to resell, $4.2 billion of Securities borrowed, $15.6 billion of Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $0.7 billion
of Securities loaned at December 31, 2014, which are either not subject to master netting agreements or are subject to such agreements but the Company has not determined the agreements to be legally enforceable.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(2)  
    Amounts relate to master netting agreements, that have been determined by the Company to be legally enforceable in the event of default but where
certain other criteria are not met in accordance with applicable offsetting accounting guidance.            
  For information related to offsetting of derivatives, see Note 4.   
         Secured Financing Transactions Maturities and Collateral Pledged.
             Gross Secured Financing Balances by
Remaining Contractual Maturity.          
           Gross Secured Financing
Balances by Class of Collateral Pledged.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Amounts are presented on a gross basis, prior to netting in the consolidated statements of financial condition.      
         Trading Assets Pledged.    
        The Company pledges its trading assets to collateralize
repurchase agreements and other secured financings. Pledged financial instruments that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Trading assets (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the carrying value of Trading assets by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were
$35.0 billion and $31.3 billion, respectively.             Collateral
Received.             The Company receives collateral in
the form of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and derivative transactions, customer margin loans and securities-based lending. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these
securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. The Company additionally receives
securities as collateral in connection with certain securities-for-securities transactions in which it is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities, it reports the fair value of the collateral
received and the related obligation to return the collateral in its consolidated statements of financial condition. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the total fair value of financial instruments received as collateral where the
Company is permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $522.6 billion and $545.7 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $398.1 billion and $403.4 billion, respectively.   
         Concentration Risk.    
        The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large
positions in certain types of securities, loans or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers
involving developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry. Trading assets owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally the United Kingdom
( U.K. ), Japan, Brazil and Hong Kong), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 7% of the Company s total assets at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. In addition, substantially all of the collateral
held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented approximately 15% and 17% of the Company s total assets at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, consists of securities issued by
the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments made in connection with its private equity,
principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. In addition, the Company may originate or purchase certain
residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such terms and features may include loans made to borrowers
subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value ratios.             Other.             The Company also engages in margin lending to clients that allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities and is included within Customer and other receivables in the consolidated
statements of financial condition. Under these agreements and transactions, the Company receives collateral, including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities.
Customer receivables generated from margin lending activities are collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. The Company monitors   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

required margin levels and established credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary.   
        Margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not
committed facilities. Factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification
or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk. Additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal
impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral.            Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an
evaluation of industry concentrations. For these transactions, adherence to the Company s collateral policies significantly limits its credit exposure in the event of a customer default. The Company may request additional margin collateral from
customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold but not delivered from customers. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the amounts related to margin lending
were approximately $25.3 billion and $29.0 billion, respectively.            Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Company is deemed to be the
primary beneficiary, and certain equity-linked notes and other secured borrowings. These liabilities are generally payable from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Trading assets (see Notes 11 and 13).   
         Cash and Securities Deposited with Clearing Organizations or
Segregated.          

(1)  
    In 2015, the Company made amendments to certain arrangements by which it acts in the capacity of a clearing member to clear derivatives on behalf of
customers. These amendments resulted in approximately $3.8 billion related to cash initial margin received from customers and remitted to clearing organizations or third-party custodian banks no longer qualifying for recognition in the consolidated
statements of financial condition.      

(2)  
    Securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements are sourced from Securities
purchased under agreements to resell and Trading assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition.            

7.   
     Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses.       
         Loans.             The Company s loan portfolio consists of the following:   

Corporate .    Corporate loans primarily include commercial and industrial lending used for general corporate purposes,
working capital and liquidity, event-driven loans and asset-backed lending products. Event-driven loans support client merger, acquisition, recapitalization, or project finance activities. Corporate loans are structured as revolving lines of credit,
letter of credit facilities, term loans and bridge loans. Risk factors considered in determining the allowance for corporate loans include the borrower s financial strength, seniority of the loan, collateral type, volatility of collateral
value, debt cushion, covenants and counterparty type.            

Consumer .    Consumer loans include unsecured loans and securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money
against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

securities or refinancing margin debt. The majority of consumer loans are structured as revolving lines of credit and letter of credit facilities and are primarily offered through the
Company s Portfolio Loan Account ( PLA ) and Liquidity Access Line ( LAL ) programs. The allowance methodology for unsecured loans considers the specific attributes of the loan as well as the borrower s source of
repayment. The allowance methodology for securities-based lending considers the collateral type underlying the loan ( e.g. , diversified securities, concentrated securities or restricted stock).      

Residential Real Estate .    Residential real estate loans mainly include non-conforming loans and home equity lines of
credit. The allowance methodology for non-conforming residential mortgage loans considers several factors, including, but not limited to, loan-to-value ratio, FICO score, home price index and delinquency status. The methodology for home equity lines
of credit considers credit limits and utilization rates in addition to the factors considered for non-conforming residential mortgages.            

Wholesale Real Estate .    Wholesale real estate loans include owner-occupied loans and income-producing loans. The
principal risk factors for determining the allowance for wholesale real estate loans are the underlying collateral type, loan-to-value ratio and debt service ratio.                Loans Held for Investment and Held for Sale.    

See Note 3 for further information regarding Loans and lending commitments held at fair value.   
          Credit Quality.     
        The Credit Risk Management Department evaluates new obligors
before credit transactions are initially approved and at least annually thereafter for corporate and wholesale real estate loans. For corporate loans, credit evaluations typically involve the evaluation of financial statements; assessment of
leverage, liquidity, capital strength, asset composition and quality; market capitalization and access to capital markets; cash flow projections and debt service requirements; and the adequacy of collateral, if applicable. The Credit Risk Management
Department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry dynamics, obligor s management and other factors that could affect an obligor s risk profile. For wholesale real estate loans, the credit evaluation is focused on property and
transaction metrics, including property type, loan-to-value ratio, occupancy levels, debt service ratio, prevailing capitalization rates, and market dynamics. For residential real estate and consumer loans, the initial credit evaluation typically
includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor s income, net worth, liquidity, collateral, loan-to-value ratio and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring for residential real estate loans is performed at the portfolio
level. Consumer loan collateral values are monitored on an ongoing basis.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The Company utilizes the following credit quality indicators, which are consistent with
U.S. banking regulators  definitions of criticized exposures, in its credit monitoring process for loans held for investment:         

Pass .    A credit exposure rated pass has a continued expectation of timely repayment, all obligations of the borrower
are current, and the obligor complies with material terms and conditions of the lending agreement.            

Special Mention .    Extensions of credit that have potential weakness that deserve management s close attention and,
if left uncorrected, may, at some future date, result in the deterioration of the repayment prospects or collateral position.            

Substandard .    Obligor has a well-defined weakness that jeopardizes the repayment of the debt and has a high probability
of payment default with the distinct possibility that the Company will sustain some loss if noted deficiencies are not corrected.            

Doubtful .    Inherent weakness in the exposure makes the collection or repayment in full, based on existing facts,
conditions and circumstances, highly improbable, and the amount of loss is uncertain.            

Loss .    Extensions of credit classified as loss are considered uncollectible and are charged off.
              Loans considered as doubtful or
loss are considered impaired. Substandard loans are regularly reviewed for impairment. When a loan is impaired, the impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate
or, as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. For further information, see Note 2.             Credit Quality Indicators for Loans Held for Investment, Gross of Allowance for Loan Losses, by Product
Type.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Impaired and Past Due Loans Held for Investment.    

(1)  
    At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, no allowance was outstanding for these loans as the present value of the expected future cash
flows (or, alternatively, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral held) equaled or exceeded the carrying value.      
     
        EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa.             Troubled Debt Restructurings.             At December 31, 2015, the impaired loans and lending commitments within held for investment include TDRs of $44.0 million and $34.8 million, respectively, within corporate loans. The Company recorded
an allowance of $5.1 million against these TDRs. These restructurings typically include modifications of interest rates, collateral requirements, other loan covenants, and payment extensions. At December 31, 2014, TDRs were not significant.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Allowance for Credit Losses on Lending Activities.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Amount includes the impact related to the transfer to loans held for sale and foreign currency translation adjustments.

(2)  
    Loan balances are gross of the allowance for loan losses, and lending commitments are gross of the allowance for lending commitments.
               Employee Loans.    
        Employee loans are granted primarily in conjunction with a
program established in the Wealth Management business segment to retain and recruit certain employees. These loans are recorded in Customer and other receivables in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These loans are full recourse,
generally require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from 2 to 12 years. The Company establishes an allowance for loan amounts it does not consider   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

recoverable, which is recorded in Compensation and benefits expense. At December 31, 2015, the Company had $4,923 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of approximately $108
million. At December 31, 2014, the Company had $5,130 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of approximately $116 million.         

8.   
     Equity Method Investments.             
   Overview.          
  The Company has investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting (see Note 1) of $3,144 million and $3,332 million at
December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, included in Other investments in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Income from equity method investments was $114 million, $156 million and $451 million for 2015,
2014 and 2013, respectively, and is included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.             Japanese Securities Joint Venture.             The Company holds a 40% voting interest ( 40% interest ) and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) holds a 60% voting interest in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,
Ltd. ( MUMSS ). The Company accounts for its equity method investment in MUMSS within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company recorded income from its 40% interest of $220 million, $224
million and $570 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the book value of this investment was $1,457 million and $1,415 million, respectively. The
book value of this investee exceeds the Company s share of net assets, reflecting equity method intangible assets and equity method goodwill. In addition to MUMSS, the Company held other equity method investments that were not individually
significant.            In 2015 and 2014, MUMSS paid a
dividend of approximately $424 million and $594 million, respectively, of which the Company received its proportionate share of approximately $170 million and $238 million.   
         Summarized Financial Data for MUMSS.    

9.   
     Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.       
         Goodwill .     
        The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing
on July 1, 2015 and July 1, 2014. The Company s impairment testing for each period did not indicate any goodwill impairment as each of the Company s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess
of its carrying value. However, adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Changes in Carrying Amount of Goodwill, Net of Accumulated Impairment Losses.

Net Intangible Assets .     
         Changes in Carrying Amount of Net Intangible Assets.

(1)  
    Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income.      

(2)  
    Includes a $159 million net increase in Intangible assets related to a Commodities division transaction, which also resulted in a gain of $78
million recorded in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Amortizable Intangible Assets.    
     
          Amortization expense
associated with intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $294 million per year over the next five years.         
 
         Deposits.    

(2)  
    Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).      

(3)  
    The Company s deposits were primarily held in the U.S.      
        Interest bearing deposits at December 31, 2015 included
$153,338 million of savings deposits payable upon demand and $2,599 million of time deposits maturing in 2016, $59 million of time deposits maturing in 2017 and $9 million of time deposits maturing in 2018.   
        The vast majority of deposits in MSBNA and MSPBNA
(collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ) are sourced from the Company s retail brokerage accounts. Concurrent with the acquisition of the remaining 35% stake in the purchase of the retail securities joint venture between the Company
and Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) (the  Wealth Management JV ) in 2013, the deposit sweep agreement between Citi and the Company was terminated. The transfer of deposits previously held by Citi to the Company s depository
institutions relating to the Company s customer accounts was completed on June 30, 2015. During 2015, $8.7 billion of deposits were transferred by Citi to the Company s depository institutions.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

11.   
     Borrowings and Other Secured Financings.       
         Short-Term Borrowings.    
        At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the
Company had $2,173 million and $2,261 million, respectively, of Short-term borrowings, and the average balance was $2,187 million and $1,923 million, respectively. In 2015, the Company calculated its average balances based on daily amounts. In 2014,
the Company calculated its average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances were unavailable, month-end balances were used. These borrowings included bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with original maturities of 12
months or less. Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).         
   Long-Term Borrowings.          
   Maturities and Terms of Long-Term Borrowings.          
        N/M Not Meaningful.   

(1)  
    Variable rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including LIBOR and federal funds rates. Amounts include
borrowings that are equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index.      

(3)  
    Amounts include a decrease of approximately $0.5 billion at December 31, 2015 to the carrying amounts of certain of the long-term borrowings
for which the fair value option was elected (see Note 3).      

(4)  
    Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates and excludes financial instruments for which the fair value
option was elected. Virtually all of the variable rate notes issued by subsidiaries are carried at fair value so a weighted average coupon is not meaningful.      
         Components of Long-term Borrowings.    
     
          During 2015 and 2014, the
Company issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $34.2 billion and $36.7 billion, respectively, and approximately $27.3 billion and $33.1 billion, respectively, in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or retired.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   Senior debt securities often are denominated in various non-U.S. dollar currencies and
may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index ( e.g. , the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be callable by the Company or extendible at the
option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put or extend the notes aggregated $2,902 million at December 31, 2015 and $2,175 million at December 31, 2014. In addition,
in certain circumstances, certain purchasers may be entitled to cause the repurchase of the notes. The aggregated value of notes subject to these arrangements was $650 million at December 31, 2015 and $551 million at December 31, 2014.
Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures generally are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.   
        During 2015, Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts VI and VII
redeemed all of their issued and outstanding 6.60% Capital Securities, respectively, and the Company concurrently redeemed the related underlying junior subordinated debentures.   
          Senior Debt Structured Borrowings.     
             The Company s index-linked,
equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index ( e.g.,  Standard   Poor s 500), a basket of stocks, a
specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying index, equity, credit or other position, the Company has entered into various swap contracts and purchased
options that effectively convert the borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. The Company generally carries the entire structured borrowings at fair value. The swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features
are derivatives and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related to the notes and economic hedges are reported in Trading revenues. See Note 3 for further information on structured borrowings.   
          Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated
Debentures.              Included in the long-term
borrowings are subordinated notes of $10,404 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.45% at December 31, 2015 and $8,339 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.57% at December 31, 2014. Junior
subordinated debentures outstanding by the Company were $2,870 million at December 31, 2015 having a contractual weighted average coupon of 6.22% at December 31, 2015 and $4,868 million at December 31, 2014 having a contractual
weighted average coupon of 6.37% at December 31, 2014. Maturities of the subordinated and junior subordinated notes range from 2022 to 2067, while maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2052 at the
Company s option.             Asset and Liability Management.   
            In general, securities inventories that are
not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of the Company s assets are financed with a combination of deposits, short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets
are generally financed with fixed rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest
rate risk. These swaps effectively convert certain of the Company s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company
has entered into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations.         
  The Company s use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate.   
         Effective Average Borrowing Rate.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates.      
          Other.            
        The Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains
funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate
loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.             Other
Secured Financings.             Other secured financings
include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, pledged commodities, certain equity-linked notes
and other secured borrowings. See Note 13 for further information on other secured financings related to VIEs and securitization activities.         
   Other Secured Financings.          

(2)  
    For more information on failed sales, see Note 13.      
         Maturities and Terms of Secured Financings with Original Maturities
Greater than One Year.          

(1)  
    Variable rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of indices, including LIBOR. Amounts include borrowings that are equity-linked,
credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index.      

(2)  
    Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates and excludes secured financings that are linked to
non-interest indices and for which fair value option was elected.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Maturities and Terms of Failed Sales.          
          For more information on
failed sales, see Note 13.         

12.    Commitments,   
     Guarantees and Contingencies.             
   Commitments.          
  The Company s commitments are summarized below by years to maturity. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire
unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.             Commitments.          

(1)  
    Due to the nature of the Company s obligations under the commitments, these amounts include certain commitments participated to third parties
of $4.2 billion.      

(2)  
    The Company enters into forward-starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements that primarily settle within three business days of
the trade date, and of the total amount at December 31, 2015, $25.6 billion settled within three business days.      

(3)  
    The Company also has a contingent obligation to provide financing to a clearinghouse through which it clears certain transactions. The financing is
required only upon the default of a clearinghouse member. The financing takes the form of a reverse repurchase facility, with a maximum amount of approximately $2.2 billion.                 Type of Commitments.     
         Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees Obtained
to Satisfy Collateral Requirements.     The Company has outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company s

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to provide collateral for securities and commodities
borrowed and to satisfy various margin requirements in lieu of depositing cash or securities with these counterparties.         
   Investment Activities .    The Company enters into commitments associated with its real estate, private equity
and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.             Lending Commitments .    Lending commitments represent the notional amount of legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients for different types of loan transactions.
For syndications led by the Company, the lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that the Company participates in
and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be allocated from the lead, syndicate bank. Due to the nature of the Company s obligations under the
commitments, these amounts include certain commitments participated to third parties. See Note 7 for further information.         
   Forward-Starting Reverse Repurchase Agreements .    The Company has entered into forward-starting securities
purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2015 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign
government obligations.            The Company sponsors
several non-consolidated investment funds for third-party investors where it typically acts as general partner of, and investment advisor to, these funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds, with subscribing
third-party investors contributing the majority. The Company s employees, including its senior officers as well as the Company s Directors, may participate on the same terms and conditions as other investors in certain of these funds that
the Company forms primarily for client investment, except that the Company may waive or lower applicable fees and charges for its employees. The Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty
arrangements with respect to these investment funds.             Premises and Equipment.     The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering premises and equipment (excluding commodity operating leases, shown separately). At
December 31, 2015, future minimum rental commitments under such leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows:         
   Operating Premises Leases.          
          The total of minimum rental
income to be received in the future under non-cancelable operating subleases at December 31, 2015 was $26 million.         
  Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations resulting from
increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental income, was $705 million, $715 million and $742 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Guarantees.    
         Obligations Under Guarantee Arrangements at
December 31, 2015.          

(1)  
    Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on
derivative contracts, see Note 4.      

(2)  
    These amounts include certain issued standby letters of credit participated to third parties totaling $0.7 billion due to the nature of the
Company s obligations under these arrangements.               The Company has obligations under certain guarantee arrangements, including contracts and indemnification agreements, that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based
on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed
party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the
indebtedness of others.              Types of
Guarantees.               Derivative
Contracts.     Certain derivative contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps (see Note 4 regarding credit derivatives in
which the Company has sold credit protection to the counterparty). Although the Company s derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity security, the
Company has disclosed information regarding all derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and written foreign
currency options, cannot be estimated, as increases in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments that the
Company could be required to make under certain derivative contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed. In certain situations, collateral may be held by the Company for those contracts that meet the definition of a guarantee.
Generally, the Company sets collateral requirements by counterparty so that the collateral covers various transactions and products and is not allocated specifically to individual contracts. Also, the Company may recover amounts related to the
underlying asset delivered to the Company under the derivative contract.            The Company records all derivative contracts at fair value. Aggregate market risk limits have been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also
manages its exposure to these derivative   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the
derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure.             Standby Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees Issued.     In connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate activities, the Company provides
standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other
contractual obligation. A majority of the Company s standby letters of credit are provided on behalf of counterparties that are investment grade.         
   Market Value Guarantees.     Market value guarantees are issued to guarantee timely payment of a specified
return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. These guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund.
From time to time, the Company may also guarantee return of principal invested, potentially including a specified rate of return, to fund investors.         
   Liquidity Facilities.     The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with special purpose entities
( SPEs ) and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Company acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone municipal
bonds in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the holders of the individual bonds, respectively, have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Company on specified dates at a specified price. The Company
often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors. Primarily all of the underlying assets in the
SPEs are investment grade. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender option bond trusts are classified as derivatives.         
   Whole Loan Sale Guarantees.     The Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for,
representations and warranties regarding certain whole loan sales. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties are breached.
The Company s maximum potential payout related to such representations and warranties is equal to the current unpaid principal balance ( UPB ) of such loans. The Company has information on the current UPB only when it services the
loans. The amount included in the above table for the maximum potential payout of $23.5 billion includes the current UPB where known of $4.5 billion and the UPB at the time of sale of $18.9 billion when the current UPB is not known. The UPB at the
time of the sale of all loans covered by these representations and warranties was approximately $42.7 billion. The related liability primarily relates to sales of loans to the federal mortgage agencies.   
         Securitization Representations and
Warranties.     As part of the Company s Institutional Securities business segment s securitization and related activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and
warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company. The extent and nature of the representations and warranties, if any, vary among different securitizations. Under certain circumstances, the
Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties are breached. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal
to the current outstanding balances of, or losses associated with, the assets subject to breaches of such representations and warranties. The amount included in the above table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB where known
and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known.            Between 2004 and 2015, the Company sponsored approximately $148.0 billion of RMBS primarily containing U.S. residential loans that were outstanding at December 31, 2015. Of that amount, the Company
made representations and warranties relating to approximately $47.0 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of
loans. At December 31, 2015, the Company had recorded $101 million in its consolidated financial statements for payments owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties made in connection with these residential mortgages. At
December 31, 2015, the current UPB for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $13.5 billion, and   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

the cumulative losses associated with U.S. RMBS were approximately $14.7 billion. The Company did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible for, the representations and warranties made by
third-party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that it securitized during that time period.         
  The Company also made representations and warranties in connection with its role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans
that it securitized in CMBS. Between 2004 and 2015, the Company originated approximately $67.6 billion and $7.2 billion of U.S. and non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into CMBS sponsored by the Company that were
outstanding at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, the Company had not accrued any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for payments owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties made in connection with
these commercial mortgages. At December 31, 2015, the current UPB for all U.S. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $35.0 billion. For the non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, the amount included in the
above table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB when known of $1.3 billion and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known of $0.4 billion.   
         General Partner Guarantees.     As
a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives certain distributions from the partnerships related to achieving certain return hurdles according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The
Company, from time to time, may be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in the various partnership agreements, subject to
certain limitations.             Merger and Acquisition
Guarantees.     The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the
regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the
event the acquirer s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover the time frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The
Company believes the likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of its due diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.             Other Guarantees and Indemnities.     In the normal course of business, the Company
provides guarantees and indemnifications in a variety of transactions. These provisions generally are standard contractual terms. Certain of these guarantees and indemnifications related to trust preferred securities, indemnities, and
exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees are described below:         

Trust Preferred Securities.     The Company has established Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts for the limited purpose of
issuing trust preferred securities to third parties and lending such proceeds to the Company in exchange for junior subordinated debentures. The Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts are SPEs, and only the Parent provides a guarantee for the trust preferred
securities. The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders in accordance with the terms thereof. See Note 11 for details on the Company s junior subordinated debentures.

Indemnities.     The Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent exposures and taxes,
including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments could be required based
on a change in the tax laws, a change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The
maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated.            

Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees.     The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and
clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or derivative contracts. Associated with its      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. While
the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company s obligations under these rules would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its resources. In addition, some
clearinghouse rules require members to assume a proportionate share of losses resulting from the clearinghouse s investment of guarantee fund contributions and initial margin, and of other losses unrelated to the default of a clearing member,
if such losses exceed the specified resources allocated for such purpose by the clearinghouse. The maximum potential payout under these rules cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in its consolidated financial
statements for these agreements and believes that any potential requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.            
  In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated
with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of
the Company s subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the consolidated financial statements.   
         Contingencies.    
         Legal .    In the normal course of
business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services
institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary
defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. These actions have included, but are not limited to, residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters. Over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory
activity (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Company expects that it may become the subject of increased claims for damages and other
relief and, while the Company has identified below any individual proceedings where the Company believes a material loss to be reasonably possible and reasonably estimable, there can be no assurance that material losses will not be incurred from
claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be probable or possible and reasonably estimable losses.         
  The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. Where available information indicates
that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. The Company
incurred legal expenses of $563 million in 2015, $3,364 million in 2014 and $1,941 million in 2013. The Company s future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment regarding government investigations and
private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Company.            In many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. In addition, even where a loss
is possible or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously recognized loss contingency, it is not always possible to reasonably estimate the size of the possible loss or range of loss.
           For certain legal proceedings and investigations,
the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or governmental entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages,
restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the
calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional range of loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or
investigation.            For certain other legal
proceedings and investigations, the Company can estimate reasonably possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued, but does not believe, based on current knowledge and after consultation
with counsel, that such losses will have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements as a whole, other than the matters referred to in the following paragraphs.   
        On July 15, 2010, China Development Industrial Bank
( CDIB ) filed a complaint against the Company, styled  China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated et al ., which is pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County
( Supreme Court of NY ). The complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the STACK 2006-1 CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent
concealment and alleges that the Company misrepresented the risks of the STACK 2006-1 CDO to CDIB, and that the Company knew that the assets backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The complaint
seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of CDIB s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees
and costs. On February 28, 2011, the court denied the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Company believes it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $240 million plus
pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs.         
  On August 7, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4SL
and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-4SL against the Company. The matter is styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.  and is pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The
complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint
seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the
Company s motion to dismiss. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $149 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the
Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.   
        On August 8, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as
trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-14SL, Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2007-4SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-4SL against
the Company styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc ., pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint
asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and warranties.
The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in
part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $527 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage
loans for which the Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.
           On September 28, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its
capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX against the Company styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest
to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.,  pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached various representations and warranties. The amended
complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. By order dated September 30, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss
the amended complaint. On July 13, 2015, the plaintiff perfected its appeal from the court s September 30, 2014 decision. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up
to approximately $170 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to
expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.            On January 10, 2013, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-10SL
against the Company styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The
complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint
seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the Company to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the
Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $197 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for
which the Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.
           On May 3, 2013, plaintiffs in  Deutsche
Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank AG et al. v. Morgan Stanley et al.  filed a complaint against the Company, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and
omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Company to
plaintiff currently at issue in this action was approximately $644 million. The complaint alleges causes of action against the Company for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and
rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On June 10, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. The Company perfected its appeal from that decision
on June 12, 2015. At December 25, 2015, the current unpaid balance of the mortgage pass-through certificates at issue in this action was approximately $269 million, and the certificates had incurred actual losses of approximately $83
million. Based on currently available information, the Company believes it could incur a loss in this action up to the difference between the $269 million unpaid balance of these certificates (plus any losses incurred) and their fair market value at
the time of a judgment against the Company, or upon sale, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs. The Company may be entitled to be indemnified for some of these losses.            On July 8, 2013, U.S. Bank National Association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the
Company styled  U.S. Bank National Association, solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2007-2AX (MSM 2007-2AX) v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley
Mortgage   Capital Inc. and Greenpoint Mortgage Fundin g,  Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an
original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified
damages and interest. On August 22, 2013, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on November 24, 2014. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could
incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $240 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and
costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   On April 28, 2014, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee
for Morgan Stanley Structured Trust I 2007-1, filed a complaint against the Company styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company   v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC , pending in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations
and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. On April 3, 2015, the court
granted in part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $292 million, the total original
unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Company received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible
range of loss could increase.            On January 23,
2015, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the Company styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust 2007-NC4 v.
Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as Successor-by-Merger to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and
alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the
loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable and punitive damages, attorneys  fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. On October 20, 2015, the court granted in
part and denied in part the Company s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Company believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $277 million, the total original unpaid
balance of the mortgage loans for which the Company received repurchase demands from a certificate holder and a monoline insurer that the Company did not repurchase, plus pre- and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to
expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.         

13.   
     Variable Interest Entities and Securitization Activities.                 Overview .           
  The Company is involved with various SPEs in the normal course of business. In most cases, these entities are deemed to be VIEs.
           The Company s variable interests in VIEs
include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees, derivative instruments and certain fees. The Company s involvement with VIEs arises primarily from:   

Interests purchased in connection with market-making activities, securities held in its Investment securities portfolio and retained interests held
as a result of securitization activities, including re-securitization transactions.            

Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations.      

Loans made to and investments in VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets.      

Derivatives entered into with VIEs.            

Structuring of CLNs or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.      

Other structured transactions designed to provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The Company determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon its initial
involvement with the VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary on an ongoing basis as long as it has any continuing involvement with the VIE. This determination is based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including the
VIE s structure and activities, the power to make significant economic decisions held by the Company and by other parties, and the variable interests owned by the Company and other parties.   
        The power to make the most significant economic decisions may
take a number of different forms in different types of VIEs. The Company considers servicing or collateral management decisions as representing the power to make the most significant economic decisions in transactions such as securitizations or
CDOs. As a result, the Company does not consolidate securitizations or CDOs for which it does not act as the servicer or collateral manager unless it holds certain other rights to replace the servicer or collateral manager or to require the
liquidation of the entity. If the Company serves as servicer or collateral manager, or has certain other rights described in the previous sentence, the Company analyzes the interests in the VIE that it holds and consolidates only those VIEs for
which it holds a potentially significant interest of the VIE.            The structure of securitization vehicles and CDOs is driven by several parties, including loan seller(s) in securitization transactions, the collateral manager in a CDO, one or more rating agencies, a
financial guarantor in some transactions and the underwriter(s) of the transactions, who serve to reflect specific investor demand. In addition, subordinate investors, such as the  B-piece  buyer ( i.e.,  investors in most
subordinated bond classes) in commercial mortgage-backed securitizations or equity investors in CDOs, can influence whether specific loans are excluded from a CMBS transaction or investment criteria in a CDO.   
        For many transactions, such as re-securitization
transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged notes, there are no significant economic decisions made on an ongoing basis. In these cases, the Company focuses its analysis on decisions made prior to the initial closing of the transaction and at the
termination of the transaction. Based upon factors, which include an analysis of the nature of the assets, including whether the assets were issued in a transaction sponsored by the Company and the extent of the information available to the Company
and to investors, the number, nature and involvement of investors, other rights held by the Company and investors, the standardization of the legal documentation and the level of continuing involvement by the Company, including the amount and type
of interests owned by the Company and by other investors, the Company concluded in most of these transactions that decisions made prior to the initial closing were shared between the Company and the initial investors. The Company focused its control
decision on any right held by the Company or investors related to the termination of the VIE. Most re-securitization transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged notes have no such termination rights.   
         Consolidated VIEs.    
        Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured
financings and managed real estate partnerships in the tables below, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Trading assets and the liabilities of the entities in Other secured financings in its consolidated statements
of financial condition. For consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Premises, equipment and software costs, and Other assets in its consolidated statements of
financial condition. For consolidated VIEs included in managed real estate partnerships, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Trading assets in its consolidated statements of financial condition. Except for
consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the assets and liabilities are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in earnings.   
        The assets owned by many consolidated VIEs cannot be removed
unilaterally by the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by many consolidated VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. In certain other consolidated VIEs, the Company either has the unilateral right to
remove assets or provide additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   As part of the Institutional Securities business segment s securitization and
related activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company (see Note 12).   
         Consolidated VIE Assets and Liabilities.    
        Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities are presented after
intercompany eliminations and include assets financed on a non-recourse basis:         

(1)  
    During 2015 and 2014, the Company deconsolidated approximately $191 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, in net assets previously attributable to
nonredeemable noncontrolling interests that were primarily related to or associated with real estate funds sponsored by the Company.            
  In general, the Company s exposure to loss in consolidated VIEs is limited to losses that would be absorbed on the VIE s assets
recognized in its financial statements, net of losses absorbed by third-party holders of the VIE s liabilities. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, managed real estate partnerships reflected nonredeemable noncontrolling
interests in the consolidated financial statements of $37 million and $240 million, respectively. The Company also had additional maximum exposure to losses of approximately $72 million and $105 million at December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, respectively, primarily related to certain derivatives, commitments, guarantees and other forms of involvement.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Non-consolidated VIEs.    
        The tables below include all VIEs in which the Company has
determined that its maximum exposure to loss is greater than specific thresholds or meets certain other criteria. Most of the VIEs included in the tables below are sponsored by unrelated parties; the Company s involvement generally is the
result of its secondary market-making activities and securities held in its Investment securities portfolio (see Note 5):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Mortgage- and asset-backed securitizations include VIE assets as follows: $13.8 billion of residential mortgages; $57.3 billion of commercial
mortgages; $13.2 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $42.5 billion of other consumer or commercial loans.      

(2)  
    Mortgage- and asset-backed securitizations include VIE debt and equity interests as follows: $1.0 billion of residential mortgages; $2.9 billion of
commercial mortgages; $2.8 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $6.7 billion of other consumer or commercial loans.      

(3)  
    Mortgage- and asset-backed securitizations include VIE assets as follows: $30.8 billion of residential mortgages; $71.9 billion of commercial
mortgages; $20.6 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $51.2 billion of other consumer or commercial loans.      

(4)  
    Mortgage- and asset-backed securitizations include VIE debt and equity interests as follows: $1.9 billion of residential mortgages; $2.4 billion of
commercial mortgages; $4.0 billion of U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations; and $6.8 billion of other consumer or commercial loans.            
  The Company s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the variable interests held by the Company. The
maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the Company s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the
fair value of certain other derivatives and investments the Company has made in the VIEs. Liabilities issued by VIEs generally are non-recourse to the Company. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure related to
derivatives, such amounts do not reflect fair value write-downs already recorded by the Company.            The Company s maximum exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with its variable interests.
In addition, the Company s maximum exposure to loss is not reduced by the amount of collateral held as part of a transaction with the VIE or any party to the VIE directly against a specific exposure to loss.   
        Securitization transactions generally involve VIEs. Primarily
as a result of its secondary market-making activities, the Company owned additional securities issued by securitization SPEs for which the maximum exposure to loss is less than specific thresholds. These additional securities totaled $12.9 billion
and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. These securities were either retained in connection with transfers of assets by the Company, acquired in connection with secondary market-making activities or held
as AFS securities in its Investment securities portfolio (see Note 5). At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, these securities consisted of securities backed by residential mortgage loans, commercial mortgage loans or other consumer
loans, such as credit card receivables,   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

automobile loans and student loans, and CDOs or CLOs. The Company s primary risk exposure is to the securities issued by the SPE owned by the Company, with the risk highest on the most
subordinate class of beneficial interests. These securities generally are included in Trading assets Corporate and other debt or AFS securities within its Investment securities portfolio and are measured at fair value (see Note 3). The Company
does not provide additional support in these transactions through contractual facilities, such as liquidity facilities, guarantees or similar derivatives. The Company s maximum exposure to loss generally equals the fair value of the securities
owned.            The Company s transactions with VIEs
primarily include securitizations, municipal tender option bond trusts, credit protection purchased through CLNs, other structured financings, collateralized loan and debt obligations, equity-linked notes, managed real estate partnerships and asset
management investment funds. The Company s continuing involvement in VIEs that it does not consolidate can include ownership of retained interests in Company-sponsored transactions, interests purchased in the secondary market (both for
Company-sponsored transactions and transactions sponsored by third parties), derivatives with securitization SPEs (primarily interest rate derivatives in commercial mortgage and residential mortgage securitizations and credit derivatives in which
the Company has purchased protection in synthetic CDOs). Such activities are further described below.             Securitization Activities.             In a securitization transaction, the Company transfers assets (generally commercial or residential mortgage loans or U.S. agency securities) to an SPE, sells to investors most of the beneficial interests,
such as notes or certificates, issued by the SPE, and, in many cases, retains other beneficial interests. In many securitization transactions involving commercial mortgage loans, the Company transfers a portion of the assets to the SPE with
unrelated parties transferring the remaining assets.            The purchase of the transferred assets by the SPE is financed through the sale of these interests. In some of these transactions, primarily involving residential mortgage loans in the U.S., the Company
serves as servicer for some or all of the transferred loans. In many securitizations, particularly involving residential mortgage loans, the Company also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, with
the SPE.            Although not obligated, the Company
generally makes a market in the securities issued by SPEs in these transactions. As a market maker, the Company offers to buy these securities from, and sell these securities to, investors. Securities purchased through these market-making activities
are not considered to be retained interests, although these beneficial interests generally are included in Trading assets Corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value.            The Company enters into derivatives, generally interest rate swaps and interest rate caps, with a senior
payment priority in many securitization transactions. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company s overall
exposure. See Note 4 for further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities.              Available for Sale Securities   .               
  In the AFS securities within the Investment securities portfolio, the Company holds securities issued by VIEs not sponsored by the
Company. These securities include government guaranteed securities issued in transactions sponsored by the federal mortgage agencies and the most senior securities issued by VIEs in which the securities are backed by student loans, automobile loans,
commercial mortgage loans or CLOs (see Note 5).         
    Municipal Tender Option Bond Trusts.                     In a municipal tender option bond transaction, the Company, generally on behalf of a client, transfers a
municipal bond to a trust. The trust issues short-term securities that the Company, as the remarketing agent, sells to investors. The client retains a residual interest. The short-term securities are supported by a liquidity facility pursuant to
which the investors may put their   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

short-term interests. In some programs, the Company provides this liquidity facility; in most programs, a third-party provider will provide such liquidity facility. The Company may purchase
short-term securities in its role either as remarketing agent or as liquidity provider. The client can generally terminate the transaction at any time. The liquidity provider can generally terminate the transaction upon the occurrence of certain
events. When the transaction is terminated, the municipal bond is generally sold or returned to the client. Any losses suffered by the liquidity provider upon the sale of the bond are the responsibility of the client. This obligation generally is
collateralized. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender option bond trusts are classified as derivatives. The Company consolidates any municipal tender option bond trusts in which it holds the residual interest.   
          Credit Protection Purchased through CLNs.   
                 In a CLN transaction, the
Company transfers assets (generally high-quality securities or money market investments) to an SPE, enters into a derivative transaction in which the SPE writes protection on an unrelated reference asset or group of assets, through a credit default
swap, a total return swap or similar instrument, and sells to investors the securities issued by the SPE. In some transactions, the Company may also enter into interest rate or currency swaps with the SPE. Upon the occurrence of a credit event
related to the reference asset, the SPE will deliver collateral securities as payment to the Company. The Company is generally exposed to price changes on the collateral securities in the event of a credit event and subsequent sale. These
transactions are designed to provide investors with exposure to certain credit risk on the reference asset. In some transactions, the assets and liabilities of the SPE are recognized in the Company s consolidated statements of financial
condition. In other transactions, the transfer of the collateral securities is accounted for as a sale of assets, and the SPE is not consolidated. The structure of the transaction determines the accounting treatment.   
        The derivatives in CLN transactions consist of total return
swaps, credit default swaps or similar contracts in which the Company has purchased protection on a reference asset or group of assets. Payments by the SPE are collateralized. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are
essentially the same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company s overall exposure.         
    Other Structured Financings.            
        The Company primarily invests in equity interests issued by
entities that develop and own low-income communities (including low-income housing projects) and entities that construct and own facilities that will generate energy from renewable resources. The equity interests entitle the Company to its share of
tax credits and tax losses generated by these projects. In addition, the Company has issued guarantees to investors in certain low-income housing funds. The guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the
investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by the fund. The Company is also involved with entities designed to provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.   
          Collateralized Loan and Debt Obligations.   
                 A CLO or a CDO is an SPE that
purchases a pool of assets, consisting of corporate loans, corporate bonds, asset-backed securities or synthetic exposures on similar assets through derivatives, and issues multiple tranches of debt and equity securities to investors. The Company
underwrites the securities issued in CLO transactions on behalf of unaffiliated sponsors and provides advisory services to these unaffiliated sponsors. The Company sells corporate loans to many of these SPEs, in some cases representing a significant
portion of the total assets purchased. If necessary, the Company may retain unsold securities issued in these transactions. Although not obligated, the Company generally makes a market in the securities issued by SPEs in these transactions. These
beneficial interests are included in Trading assets and are measured at fair value.              Equity-Linked Notes.                  
  In an equity-linked note ( ELN ) transaction, the Company typically transfers to an SPE either (1) a note issued by the
Company, the payments on which are linked to the performance of a specific equity security, equity index, or other index or   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(2) debt securities issued by other companies and a derivative contract, the terms of which will relate to the performance of a specific equity security, equity index or other index. These
transactions are designed to provide investors with exposure to certain risks related to the specific equity security, equity index or other index. ELN transactions with SPEs were not consolidated at December 31, 2015 and at December 31,
2014.              Managed Real Estate
Partnerships.                     The
Company sponsors funds that invest in real estate assets. Certain of these funds are classified as VIEs, primarily because the Company has provided financial support through lending facilities and other means. The Company also serves as the general
partner for these funds and owns limited partnership interests in them. These funds were consolidated at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.         
   Transfers of Assets with Continuing Involvement .         
  Transactions with SPEs in which the Company, acting as principal, transferred financial assets with continuing involvement and received
sales treatment are shown below.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Amounts include CLO transactions managed by unrelated third parties.      

(2)  
    Amounts include assets transferred by unrelated transferors.      

Transferred assets are
carried at fair value prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by these securitization vehicles. Investment
banking underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the
consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income.   
        Net gains on sale of assets in securitization transactions at
the time of the sale were not material in 2015, 2014 and 2013.             Proceeds from New Securitization Transactions and Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions.          
          The Company has provided, or
otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Company (see Note 12).   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Proceeds from Sales to CLO Entities Sponsored by Non-Affiliates.    
     
          Net gains on sale of
corporate loans to CLO transactions at the time of sale were not material in 2015, 2014 and 2013.            The Company also enters into transactions in which it sells equity securities and contemporaneously enters into bilateral OTC equity derivatives with the purchasers of the securities, through which it
retains the exposure to the securities. For transactions where the derivatives were outstanding at December 31, 2015, the carrying value of assets derecognized at the time of sale and the gross cash proceeds were $7.9 billion. In addition, the
fair value at December 31, 2015 of the assets sold was $7.9 billion, while the fair value of derivative assets and derivative liabilities recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2015 was $97.0
million and $39.8 million, respectively (see Note 4).             Failed
Sales.             For transfers that fail to meet the
accounting criteria for a sale, the Company continues to recognize the assets in Trading assets at fair value, and the Company recognizes the associated liabilities in Other secured financings at fair value in the consolidated statements of
financial condition (see Note 11).            The assets
transferred to unconsolidated VIEs in transactions accounted for as failed sales cannot be removed unilaterally by the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities are also non-recourse to the Company. In certain
other failed sale transactions, the Company has the right to remove assets or provide additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.   
         Carrying Value of Assets and Liabilities Related to Failed Sales.

14.   
     Regulatory Requirements.             
   Regulatory Capital Framework.          
  The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is subject to the regulation and
oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ). The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company s
compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The U.S. banking regulators have
comprehensively revised their risk-based and leverage capital framework to implement many aspects of the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). The U.S. banking
regulators  revised capital framework is referred to herein as  U.S. Basel III.  The Company and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries became subject to U.S. Basel III on January 1, 2014.   
         Calculation of Risk-Based Capital Ratios.       
        The Company is required to calculate and hold capital against
credit, market and operational risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ). RWAs reflect both on- and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. Credit risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower, counterparty
or issuer failing to meet its financial obligations. Market risk RWAs   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. Operational risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk
of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events ( e.g. , fraud; theft; legal, regulatory and compliance risks; or damage to physical assets). The Company may incur operational risks across the
full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities   ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade processing). In addition, given the evolving
regulatory and litigation environment across the financial services industry and the fact that operational risk RWAs incorporate the impact of such related matters, operational risk RWAs may increase in future periods.   
        On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC
approved the Company s and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  respective use of the U.S. Basel III advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining
operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the  capital floor  discussed below (the  Advanced Approach ). As a
U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach banking organization, the Company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios calculated using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk RWAs and market risk RWAs (the  Standardized
Approach  and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk RWAs, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk RWAs, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk RWAs under U.S.
Basel III.            To implement a provision of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, U.S. Basel III subjects Advanced Approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the Company, to a permanent  capital
floor.  Beginning on January 1, 2015, as a result of the capital floor, the Company s binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the Advanced Approach or the
Standardized Approach under U.S. Basel III. The U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach modifies certain U.S. Basel I-based methods for calculating RWAs and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. In 2014,
the Company s binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes were the lower of the capital ratios computed under the Advanced Approach under U.S. Basel III or U.S. banking regulators  U.S. Basel I-based rules ( U.S. Basel
I ) as supplemented by rules that implemented the Basel Committee s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as  Basel 2.5 . The capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital
requirements, the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer (if deployed by banking regulators), and the global systemically important bank capital surcharge.   
        The methods for calculating each of the Company s
risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as aspects of U.S. Basel III are phased in. These ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the Company s reported capital ratios from one reporting period to
the next that are independent of changes to its capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile.         
    The Company s Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios.            
        At December 31, 2015, the Company s risk-based
capital ratios were lower under the Advanced Approach transitional rules; however, the risk-based capital ratios for its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries were lower under the Standardized Approach transitional rules.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Capital Measures and Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios.    

N/A Not Applicable.   

(1)  
    Percentages represent minimum regulatory capital ratios under U.S. Basel III transitional rules.      

(2)  
    Tier 1 leverage ratios are calculated under U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach transitional rules.      

(3)  
    Beginning with the first quarter of 2015, in accordance with U.S. Basel III, adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the Tier 1
leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain
investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.            
    The Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.     
        The Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to
similar regulatory capital requirements as the Company. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the
Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, each of the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines
that involve quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.         
   Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios for the Company s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Capital ratios that are required in order to be considered well-capitalized for U.S. regulatory purposes.      
        Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the U.S.
federal banking agencies, U.S. depository institutions, in order to be considered well-capitalized, must maintain certain minimum capital ratios. Each U.S. depository institution subsidiary of the Company must be well-capitalized in order for the
Company to continue to qualify as a financial holding company and to continue to engage in the broadest range of financial activities permitted for financial holding companies. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the Company s
U.S. Bank Subsidiaries maintained capital at levels sufficiently in excess of the universally mandated well-capitalized requirements to address any additional capital needs and requirements identified by the U.S. federal banking regulators.
            MS Co. and Other Broker-Dealers.    
        MS Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered
futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ). MS Co. has
consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. MS Co. s net capital totaled $10,254 million and $6,593 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, which exceeded the
amount required by $8,458 million and $4,928 million, respectively. MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of
Appendix E of SEC Rule 15c3-1. In addition, MS Co. is required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, MS Co. had tentative net capital in
excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.            MSSB LLC is a registered broker-dealer and introducing broker for the futures business and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC and the CFTC. MSSB LLC has
consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. MSSB LLC s net capital totaled $3,613 million and $4,620 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, which exceeded the amount
required by $3,459 million and $4,460 million, respectively.            MSIP, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority, and MSMS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital
requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSMS have consistently operated with capital in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.   
         Other Regulated Subsidiaries.    
        Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries of the Company
are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated
with capital in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.            The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may restrict the Company s ability to withdraw
capital from its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, approximately $28.6 billion and $31.8 billion, respectively, of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and
advances to the parent company.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Morgan Stanley Shareholders  Equity.          
    Common Stock.           
   Changes in Shares of Common Stock Outstanding.          

(1)  
    Treasury stock purchases include repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding.      

(2)  
    Other includes net shares issued to and forfeited from Employee stock trusts and issued for RSU conversions.      
         Dividends and Share
Repurchases.     In March 2015, the Company received no objection from the Federal Reserve to its 2015 capital plan. The capital plan included a share repurchase of up to $3.1 billion of the Company s outstanding common
stock during the period that began April 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016. Additionally, the capital plan included an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.15 per share from $0.10 per share that began with the dividend
declared on April 20, 2015. The cash dividends declared on the Company s outstanding preferred stock were $452 million, $311 million and $271 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. During 2015 and 2014, the Company repurchased
approximately $2,125 million and $900 million, respectively, of its outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program.         
  Pursuant to the share repurchase program, the Company considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as stock-based
compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases under the program will be exercised from time to time at prices the Company deems appropriate subject to various factors, including the Company s capital position and market
conditions. The share repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, and may be suspended at any time. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory
approval.              Employee Stock Trusts.   
                 The Company has established
Employee stock trusts to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding RSUs. The assets of the Employee stock trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value of the stock held in the Employee stock
trusts is classified in Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.         
    Preferred Stock.           
  The Company is authorized to issue 30 million shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock has a preference over the common stock
upon liquidation.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Preferred Stock Outstanding.    

(1)  
    Series C is comprised of the issuance of 1,160,791 shares of Series C Preferred Stock to MUFG for an aggregate purchase price of $911 million, less
the redemption of 640,909 shares of Series C Preferred Stock of $503 million, which were converted to common shares of approximately $705 million.      
        The Company s preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1
capital in accordance with regulatory capital requirements (see Note 14).             Preferred Stock Issuance Description.          

(1)  
    The redemption price per share for Series A, E, F, G and I is equivalent to $25.00 per Depositary Share. The redemption price per share for Series H
and J is equivalent to $1,000 per Depositary Share.      

(3)  
    The preferred stock is redeemable at the Company s option, in whole or in part, on or after the redemption date.      

(4)  
    Dividends on the Series C preferred stock are payable, on a non-cumulative basis, as and if declared by the Company s Board of Directors, in
cash, at the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(5)  
    The preferred stock is redeemable at the Company s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or
after the redemption date or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series).      

(6)  
    Dividend on Series H preferred stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2019 and quarterly thereafter.      

(7)  
    Dividend on Series J preferred stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2020 and quarterly thereafter. In addition to the redemption price
per share, the redemption price includes any declared and unpaid dividends up to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.      
          Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).
              Changes in AOCI by Component, Net of Noncontrolling
Interests.          

The Company had no
significant reclassifications out of AOCI for 2015, 2014 and 2013.             Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments.     Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency
financial statements from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in
non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

taxable currently. The Company may elect not to hedge its net investments in certain foreign operations due to market conditions or other reasons, including the availability of various currency
contracts at acceptable costs. Information at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 relating to the effects on cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments that resulted from the translation of foreign currency financial
statements and from gains and losses from hedges of the Company s net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is summarized in the table below.   
         Effects on Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation
Adjustments.          

At December 31, 2015   

At December 31, 2014   

(dollars in millions)   

Net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries subject to hedges   
      
  $  
  8,170  

$  
  9,110  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from net investments in subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar
functional currency   
      
  $  
  (1,996  
  )   
     
  $  
  (1,262  
  )    
 
    Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from realized or unrealized losses on hedges, net of
tax   

1,033  

599  

Total cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax   
      
  $  
  (963  
  )   
     
  $  
  (663  
  )    

Nonredeemable
Noncontrolling Interests.              Nonredeemable
noncontrolling interests were $1,002 million and $1,204 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The reduction in nonredeemable noncontrolling interests was primarily due to the deconsolidation of certain legal
entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company in the second quarter of 2015.             Wealth Management JV.             In June 2013, the Company purchased the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV for $4.725 billion, increasing the Company s interest from 65% to 100%. The Company recorded a negative
adjustment to retained earnings of approximately $151 million (net of tax) to reflect the difference between the purchase price for the remaining 35% interest in the Wealth Management JV and its carrying value. This adjustment negatively impacted
the calculation of basic and diluted EPS in 2013 (see Note 16). Additionally, in conjunction with the purchase of the remaining 35% interest, in June 2013, the Company redeemed all of the Class A Preferred Interests in the Wealth Management JV
owned by Citi and its affiliates for approximately $2.028 billion and repaid to Citi $880 million in senior debt.         
  Subsequent to June 2013, no results were attributed to Citi since the Company owned 100% of the Wealth Management JV. Prior to June 2013,
Citi s results related to its 35% interest were reported in net income (loss) applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

16.    Earnings   
     per Common Share.             
   Calculation of Basic and Diluted EPS.          

(1)  
    RSUs that are considered participating securities participate in all of the earnings of the Company in the computation of basic EPS, and, therefore,
such RSUs are not included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation.                 Antidilutive Securities.              Securities that were considered antidilutive were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.         
   Outstanding Antidilutive Securities at Period-End.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
      17.    Interest Income and Interest
Expense.              Interest Income and Interest
Expense.          

(1)  
    Interest income and expense are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market
conventions. When interest is included as a component of the instrument s fair value, interest is included within Trading revenues or Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income or Interest expense.

(2)  
    Interest expense on Trading liabilities is reported as a reduction to Interest income on Trading assets.      

(3)  
    Includes fees paid on Securities borrowed.      

(4)  
    Includes interest from customer receivables and other interest earning assets.      

(5)  
    Includes fees received on Securities loaned.      

(6)  
    Includes fees received from prime brokerage customers for stock loan transactions incurred to cover customers  short positions.

18.    Deferred   
     Compensation Plans.             
  The Company maintains various deferred compensation plans for the benefit of certain current and former employees. The two principal forms
of deferred compensation are granted under several stock-based compensation and cash-based compensation plans.             Stock-Based Compensation Plans.                 Stock-Based Compensation Expense.             The components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented below:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The tax benefit related to stock-based compensation expense was $369 million, $404
million and $371 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.            At December 31, 2015, the Company had $720 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards. Absent estimated or actual forfeitures or cancellations, this amount of
unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized as $448 million in 2016, $228 million in 2017 and $44 million thereafter. These amounts do not include 2015 performance year awards granted in January 2016, which will begin to be amortized in 2016
(see  2015 Performance Year Deferred Compensation Awards  herein).            In connection with awards under its stock-based compensation plans, the Company is authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. At December 31, 2015,
approximately 96 million shares were available for future grants under these plans.            The Company generally uses treasury shares, if available, to deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing repurchase authorization that includes repurchases in connection with awards granted under its
stock-based compensation plans. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. See Note 15 for additional information on the Company s share repurchase program.              Restricted Stock Units.            
        RSUs are generally subject to vesting over time, generally
one to three years from the date of grant, contingent upon continued employment and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until conversion to common stock. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the
end of the relevant vesting period, and after the relevant vesting period in certain situations. Recipients of RSUs may have voting rights, at the Company s discretion, and generally receive dividend equivalents.   
         Vested and Unvested RSU Activity.    

The weighted average
grant date fair value for RSUs granted during 2014 and 2013 was $32.58 and $22.72, respectively. At December 31, 2015, the weighted average remaining term until delivery for the Company s outstanding RSUs was approximately 1.1 years.
           At December 31, 2015, the intrinsic value of
RSUs vested or expected to vest was $3,144 million.         
  The total intrinsic value of RSUs converted to common stock during 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $1,646 million, $1,461 million and $939
million, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Unvested RSU Activity.          

(1)  
    Unvested RSUs represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. At
December 31, 2015, approximately 63 million unvested RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $29.84 were expected to vest.      
        The aggregate fair value of awards that vested during 2015,
2014 and 2013 was $1,693 million, $1,517 million and $842 million, respectively.              Stock Options.                     Stock options generally have an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, vest and become exercisable over a three-year period and expire five to
10 years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon certain terminations of employment. Stock options have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those of RSUs. The weighted average fair
value of the Company s stock options granted during 2013 was $5.41, utilizing the following weighted average assumptions.         
   Weighted Average Assumptions.          
          No stock options were granted
during 2015 or 2014.            The Company s expected
option life has been determined based upon historical experience. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded options, in accordance with accounting guidance for share-based payments.
The risk-free interest rate was determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues.         
   Stock Option Activity.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2015 and 2014 was $2 million
per year, with a weighted average exercise price of $30.01 and $24.68 for 2015 and 2014, respectively. No stock options were exercised during 2013. At December 31, 2015, the intrinsic value of in the money exercisable stock options was $28
million.             Stock Options Outstanding and
Exercisable.          
            Performance-Based Stock
Units.                     PSUs will
vest and convert to shares of common stock at the end of the performance period only if the Company satisfies predetermined performance and market-based conditions over the three-year performance period that began on January 1 of the grant year
and ends three years later on December 31. Under the terms of the award, the number of PSUs that will actually vest and convert to shares will be based on the extent to which the Company achieves the specified performance goals during the
performance period. PSUs have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those of RSUs.         
  One-half of the award will be earned based on the Company s average return on equity, excluding the impact of the fluctuation in its
credit spreads and other credit factors for certain of its long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, that are accounted for at fair value, certain gains or losses associated with the sale of specified businesses, specified
goodwill impairments, certain gains or losses associated with specified legal settlements related to business activities conducted prior to January 1, 2011 and specified cumulative catch-up adjustments resulting from changes in an existing, or
application of a new, accounting principle that is not applied on a fully retrospective basis ( MS Average ROE ). The number of PSUs ultimately earned for this portion of the awards will be determined by applying a multiplier within the
following ranges:         
          On the date of award, the
fair value per share of this portion was $34.58, $32.81 and $22.85 for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.         
  One-half of the award will be earned based on the Company s total shareholder return, relative to the total shareholder return of the
S P 500 Financial Sectors Index ( Relative TSR ). The number of PSUs ultimately earned for this portion of the award will be determined by applying a multiplier within the following ranges:   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   On the date of award, the fair value per share of this portion was $38.07, $37.72 and
$34.65 for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation and the following assumptions:         
          The risk-free interest rate
was determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues. The expected stock price volatility was determined using historical volatility. The expected dividend yield was based on historical dividend payments. A correlation
coefficient was developed based on historical price data of the Company and the S P 500 Financial Sectors Index.         
   PSU Activity.          

2015   

Number of Shares   

(in millions)   

PSUs at beginning of period   

4  

Awarded   

2  

Conversions to common stock   

(2  
  )    

PSUs at end of period   

4  

Deferred Cash-Based Compensation
Plans.                Deferred cash-based
compensation plans generally provide a return to the plan participants based upon the performance of various referenced investments. The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in investments or other financial instruments to economically
hedge its obligations under its deferred cash-based compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues.             Deferred Compensation Expense.    
        The components of the Company s deferred compensation
expense (net of cancellations) are presented below:         

At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $541
million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested deferred cash-based awards (excluding unrecognized expense for returns on referenced investments). Absent actual cancellations and any future return on referenced investments, this amount
of unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized as $291 million in 2016, $103 million in 2017 and $147 million thereafter. These amounts do not include 2015 performance year awards granted in January 2016, which will begin to be amortized in
2016 (see below).   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    2015 Performance Year Deferred Compensation Awards.    
        In January 2016, the Company granted approximately $0.8
billion of stock-based awards and $1.0 billion of deferred cash-based awards related to the 2015 performance year that contain a future service requirement. Absent estimated or actual forfeitures or cancellations or accelerations, and any future
return on referenced investments, the annual compensation cost for these awards will be recognized as follows:         
   Annual Compensation Cost for 2015 Performance Year Awards.    

19.       
     Employee Benefit Plans.             
  The Company sponsors various retirement plans for the majority of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other
postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees.             Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.             Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company and its U.S. affiliates who were hired before July 1, 2007 are covered by the U.S. pension plan, a non-contributory, defined benefit pension
plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  U.S. Qualified Plan ). The U.S. Qualified Plan has ceased future benefit accruals.   
        Unfunded supplementary plans (the  Supplemental
Plans ) cover certain executives. Liabilities for benefits payable under the Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the participant and beneficiaries. The Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement and
Excess Plan (the  SEREP ), a non-contributory defined benefit plan that is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, ceased future benefit accruals after September 30, 2014. Any benefits earned by
participants under the SEREP prior to October 1, 2014 will be payable in the future based on the SEREP s provisions. The amendment did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.   
        Certain of the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries also have
defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their employees.            The Company s pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee s years of credited service and on compensation levels specified in the plans.   
        The Company has an unfunded postretirement benefit plan that
provides medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and medical insurance for their dependents. The Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was amended to change the health care plans offered after December 31, 2014 for retirees who are
Medicare-eligible and age 65 or older. The amendment did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Components of the Net Periodic Benefit Expense (Income).    
     
           Pre-Tax Amounts Recognized
in Other Comprehensive Loss (Income).          
          The Company generally
amortizes unrecognized net gains and losses into net periodic benefit expense to the extent that the gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. The amortization of the
unrecognized net gains and losses is generally over the future service of active participants. The U.S. Qualified Plan and, effective October 1, 2014, the SEREP amortize the unrecognized net gains and losses over the average life expectancy of
participants.             Weighted Average Assumptions
Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Expense.          
        N/A Not Applicable.   
          The accounting for pension and postretirement plans involves certain assumptions and estimates. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to
remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions. The expected long-term rate of return for the U.S. Qualified Plan was
estimated by computing a weighted average of the underlying long-term expected returns based on the investment managers  target allocations. The U.S. Qualified Plan is primarily invested in fixed income securities and related derivative
instruments, including interest rate swap contracts. This asset allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and limit volatility of the Company s contributions. Total

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

U.S. Qualified Plan investment portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual investment performance to changes in the estimated present value of the U.S. Qualified Plan s benefit
obligation.              Benefit Obligations and Funded
Status.               Reconciliation of the Changes
in the Benefit Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets.          

(1)  
    Amounts primarily reflect impact of year-over-year discount rate fluctuations.      

(2)  
    Amounts represent adoption of new mortality tables published by the Society of Actuaries.      

(3)  
    In December 2014, an elective $200 million contribution was made to the U.S. Qualified Plan primarily to offset the increase in liability due to the
plan s adoption of new mortality tables.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Summary of Funded Status.    
     
          The estimated prior service
credit that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit expense over 2016 is approximately $1 million for defined benefit pension plans and $17 million for other postretirement plans. The estimated net loss
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit expense over 2016 is approximately $12 million for defined benefit pension plans.   
        The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
pension plans was $3,592 million and $3,988 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.         
   Pension Plans with Projected Benefit Obligations in Excess of the Fair Value of Plan Assets.    
     
           Pension Plans with
Accumulated Benefit Obligations in Excess of the Fair Value of Plan Assets.          
           Weighted Average
Assumptions Used to Determine Benefit Obligations.          
        N/A Not Applicable.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The discount rates used to determine the benefit obligations for the U.S. pension and
the U.S. postretirement plans were selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the plans, each determined independently. The pension discount yield
curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad-based Aa rated corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. For all non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed discount rates
based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.             Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates Used to Determine the U.S. Postretirement Benefit Obligations.          
          Assumed health care cost
trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company s postretirement benefit plan.         
   Effect of Changes in Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates.    

One-Percentage  Point Increase   

One-Percentage Point (Decrease)   

(dollars in millions)   

Total 2015 postretirement service and interest cost   

N/M  

N/M  

December 31, 2015 postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
   3  

$  
  (3  
  )    
     
  N/M Not Meaningful.         
  No impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 has been reflected in the consolidated statements
of income as Medicare prescription drug coverage was deemed to have no material effect on the Company s postretirement benefit plan.         
   Plan Assets.          
  The U.S. Qualified Plan assets represent 89% of the Company s total pension plan assets. The U.S. Qualified Plan uses a combination
of active and risk-controlled fixed income investment strategies. The fixed income asset allocation consists primarily of fixed income securities and related derivative instruments designed to approximate the expected cash flows of the plan s
liabilities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better align assets with obligations. The longer duration fixed income allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and maintain the
stability of plan contributions over the long run.         
  Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan s investment portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all
of the plan s investment policy guidelines and are consistent with the plan s risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:   

Derivatives may be used only if they are deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a similar direct investment in the underlying
cash market or if the vehicle is being used to manage risk of the portfolio.            

Derivatives may not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances.      

Derivatives may not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that investment activity is
undertaken for long-term investment rather than short-term trading.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Derivatives may be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio only when their possible effects can be quantified, shown to
enhance the risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.            
  As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes
percentage allocations and credit quality. Derivatives are used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.            Plan assets are measured at fair value using valuation techniques that are consistent with the valuation
techniques applied to the Company s major categories of assets and liabilities as described in Note 3. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available. If a
quoted market price is available, the fair value is the product of the number of trading units multiplied by the market price. If a quoted market price is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the valuation approaches that maximize
use of observable inputs and minimize use of unobservable inputs.            The fair value of OTC derivative contracts is derived primarily using pricing models, which may require multiple market input parameters. Derivative contracts are presented on a gross basis prior to cash
collateral or counterparty netting. Derivatives consist of investments in interest rate swap contracts and are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.   
        Commingled trust funds are privately offered funds available
to institutional clients that are regulated, supervised and subject to periodic examination by a U.S. federal or state agency. The trust must be maintained for the collective investment or reinvestment of assets contributed to it from U.S.
tax-qualified employee benefit plans maintained by more than one employer or controlled group of corporations. The sponsor of the commingled trust funds values the funds  NAV based on the fair value of the underlying securities. The underlying
securities of the commingled trust funds consist of mainly long-duration fixed income instruments. Commingled trust funds that are redeemable at the measurement date or in the near future are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy;
otherwise, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            Some non-U.S.-based plans hold foreign funds that consist of investments in foreign corporate equity funds, foreign fixed income funds, foreign target cash flow funds and foreign liquidity funds. Foreign
corporate equity funds and foreign fixed income funds invest in individual securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange or traded in a regulated market. Certain fixed income funds aim to produce returns consistent with certain Financial Times
Stock Exchange indexes. Foreign target cash flow funds are designed to provide a series of fixed annual cash flows over five or 10 years achieved by investing in government bonds and derivatives. Foreign liquidity funds place a high priority on
capital preservation, stable value and a high liquidity of assets. Foreign funds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as they are readily redeemable at their NAV. Corporate equity funds actively traded on an exchange are
categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.         
  Other investments held by non-U.S.-based plans consist of real estate funds, hedge funds and pledged insurance annuity contracts. These
real estate and hedge funds are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy to the extent that they are readily redeemable at their NAV; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The pledged insurance annuity
contracts are valued based on the premium reserve of the insurer for a guarantee that the insurer has given to the employee benefit plan that approximates fair value. The pledged insurance annuity contracts are categorized in Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Fair Value of Net Pension Plan Assets.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    Cash and cash equivalents, other receivables and other liabilities are valued at their carrying value, which approximates fair value.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   There were no transfers between levels during 2015 and 2014.   
         Changes in Level 3 Pension Assets.    

2015     

2014     

(dollars in millions)   

Balance at beginning of period   
      
  $  
  36  

$  
  38  

Actual return on plan assets related to assets held at end of period   

(4  
  )   

(5  
  )    
 
    Actual return on plan assets related to assets sold during the year   

Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net   

3  

3  

Net transfer in and/or (out) of Level 3   

Balance at end of period   
      
  $  
  35  

$  
  36  

Cash Flows.
             The Company s policy is to fund at
least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws. At December 31, 2015, the Company expected to contribute approximately $50 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans
in 2016 based upon the plans  current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for 2016.         
   Expected Future Benefit Payments.          
            Morgan Stanley 401(k)
Plan.                     U.S.
employees meeting certain eligibility requirements may participate in the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan. Eligible U.S. employees receive discretionary 401(k) matching cash contributions as determined annually by the Company. For 2015 and 2014, the
Company made a $1 for $1 Company match up to 4% of eligible pay, up to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) limit. Matching contributions for 2015 and 2014 were invested according to participants  investment direction. Eligible U.S.
employees with eligible pay less than or equal to $100,000 also received a fixed contribution under the 401(k) Plan that equaled 2% of eligible pay. Transition contributions are allocated to certain eligible employees. The Company match, fixed
contribution and transition contribution are included in the Company s 401(k) expense. The pre-tax 401(k) expense for 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $255 million, $256 million and $242 million, respectively.   
          Defined Contribution Pension Plans.   
                 The Company maintains separate
defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the
Company s expense related to these plans was $111 million, $117 million and $111 million, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
      20.    Income Taxes.    
         Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes.    
         Components of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes.    

(1)  
    For 2015, Non-U.S. other jurisdictions included significant total tax provisions of $68 million, $62 million, $58 million, $45 million and $42
million from Mexico, Brazil, Netherlands, India and France, respectively. For 2014, Non-U.S. other jurisdictions included significant total tax provisions of $44 million, $38 million and $38 million from Brazil, India and Mexico, respectively. For
2013, Non-U.S. other jurisdictions included significant total tax provisions (benefits) of $59 million, $54 million and $(156) million from Brazil, India and Luxembourg, respectively.      
        The Company recorded net income tax provision (benefit) to
Additional paid-in capital related to employee stock-based compensation transactions of $(203) million, $(6) million and $121 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Effective Income Tax Rate.    
         Reconciliation of the U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to the
Effective Income Tax Rate.          
          The Company s effective
tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million. These net discrete tax benefits were primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an
internal restructuring to simplify the Company s legal entity organization in the U.K. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 would have been 32.5%.   
        The Company s effective tax rate from continuing
operations for 2014 included net discrete tax benefits of $2,226 million. These net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability, previously established as part of the acquisition of
Smith Barney in 2009 through a charge to Additional paid-in capital, as a result of the legal entity restructuring that included a change in tax status of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC from a partnership to a corporation; $609 million
principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a
cost lower than originally estimated. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 would have been 59.5%, which is primarily attributable to approximately $900 million of tax provision from
non-deductible expenses for litigation and regulatory matters.            The Company s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2013 included net discrete tax benefits of $407 million. These net discrete tax benefits consisted of: $161 million related to the
remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity
reorganization; $73 million attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the enactment of the
American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which retroactively extended a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside the U.S. until such income is
repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2013 would have been 28.7%.   
         Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities.    
        Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Significant Components of the Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Balance.    
     
          The Company had tax credit
carryforwards for which a related deferred tax asset of $1,647 million and $3,740 million was recorded at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization, with a
significant amount scheduled to expire in 2020, if not utilized.            The Company believes the recognized net deferred tax asset (after valuation allowance) of $5,996 million at December 31, 2015 is more likely than not to be realized based on expectations as to future
taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.            The Company had $10,209 million and $7,364 million of cumulative earnings at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no U.S.
provision has been recorded for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Accordingly, $893 million and $841 million of deferred tax liabilities were not recorded with respect to these earnings at December 31, 2015 and December 31,
2014, respectively. The increase in indefinitely reinvested earnings is attributable to regulatory and other capital requirements in foreign jurisdictions.         
   Unrecognized Tax Benefits.          
  The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $1.8 billion, $2.2 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31,
2015, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. Of this total, approximately $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively (net of federal benefit of state issues, competent authority and foreign tax credit
offsets), represent the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in future periods.         
  Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as provision for income taxes. The Company recognized $18
million, $(35) million and $50 million of interest expense (benefit) (net of federal and state income tax benefits) in the consolidated statements of income for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Interest expense accrued at December 31,
2015, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 was approximately $122 million, $258 million and $293 million, respectively, net of federal and state income tax benefits. The decrease as of December 31, 2015 is primarily
attributable to a balance sheet reclassification related to certain multi-year tax authority examinations. Penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits for the years mentioned above were immaterial.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Reconciliation of the Beginning and Ending Amount of Unrecognized Tax Benefits.    

Unrecognized Tax Benefits     

(dollars in millions)   

Balance at December 31, 2012   
      
  $  
  4,065   

Increase based on tax positions related to the current period   

51   

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods   

267   

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(141)  

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities   

(146)  

Balance at December 31, 2013   
      
  $  
  4,096   

Increase based on tax positions related to the current period   
      
  $  
  135   

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods   

100   

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(2,080)  

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities   

(19)  

Decrease related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations   

(4)  

Balance at December 31, 2014   
      
  $  
  2,228   

Increase based on tax positions related to the current period   
      
  $  
  230   

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods   

114   

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(753)  

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities   

(7)  

Decrease related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations   

(8)  

Balance at December 31, 2015   
      
  $  
  1,804   

Tax Authority Examinations.
            The Company is under continuous examination
by the IRS and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and in states in which it has significant business operations, such as New York. The Company is currently at various levels of field examination with respect to
audits by the IRS, as well as New York State and New York City, for tax years 2009-2012 and 2007-2009, respectively. The IRS has substantially completed the field examination for the audit of tax years 2006-2008. The Company believes that the
resolution of these tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated statements of financial condition, although a resolution could have a material impact on the consolidated statements of income for a particular future period and on
the effective tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.            During the third quarter of 2015, the IRS completed an Appeals Office review of matters from tax years 1999-2005 and submitted a final report to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation for approval.
The Company has reserved the right to contest certain items, the resolution of which is not expected to have a material impact on the effective tax rate or the consolidated financial statements.   
        During 2016, the Company expects to reach a conclusion with
the U.K. tax authorities on substantially all issues through tax year 2010, the resolution of which is not expected to have a material impact on the effective tax rate or the consolidated financial statements.   
        The Company has established a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits that it believes is adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts unrecognized tax benefits only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
   The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing
jurisdiction resulting from the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of current and subsequent years  examinations. As part of the Company s periodic review, federal and state
unrecognized tax benefits were released or remeasured. As a result of this remeasurement, the income tax provision included net discrete tax benefits of $609 million and $161 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Additionally, due to new
information regarding the status of the IRS field examinations referred to above, the 2014 total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $2.0 billion.         
  It is reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months
related to certain tax authority examinations referred to above. At this time, however, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the impact on the Company s effective tax
rate over the next 12 months.             Earliest Tax Year Subject to
Examination in Major Tax Jurisdictions.          
           Income from Continuing Operations before
Income Tax Expense (Benefit).          

(1)  
    Non-U.S. income is defined as income generated from operations located outside the U.S.      
     
     21.    Segment and Geographic Information.    
         Segment Information.    
        The Company structures its segments primarily based upon the
nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and its management organization. The Company provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of the business segments: Institutional Securities,
Wealth Management and Investment Management. For a further discussion of the business segments, see Note 1.         
  Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective business segment are included in determining its operating results. Other
revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular business segment are allocated based upon the Company s allocation methodologies, generally based on each business segment s respective net revenues, non-interest
expenses or other relevant measures.            As a result
of revenues and expenses from transactions with other operating segments being treated as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the consolidated
results.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Selected Financial Information.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

(1)  
    The Company s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million attributable to the
Institutional Securities business segment (see Note 20).      

(2)  
    The Institutional Securities business segment Net loss in 2014 was primarily driven by higher legal expenses (see Note 12).

(3)  
    In September 2014, the Company sold a retail property space resulting in a gain on sale of $141 million (within Institutional Securities $84
million, Wealth Management $40 million and Investment Management $17 million), which was included within Other revenues on the consolidated statements of income.      

(4)  
    On July 1, 2014, the Company completed the sale of its ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc. The gain on sale, which was included in
continuing operations, was approximately $112 million within the Institutional Securities business segment for 2014.      

(5)  
    The Company s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 included net discrete tax benefits of $1,390 million and $839 million
attributable to the Wealth Management and Institutional Securities business segments, respectively (see Note 20).      

(6)  
    The Company s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2013 included net discrete tax benefits of $407 million attributable to the
Institutional Securities business segment (see Note 20).                Total Assets by Business Segment.          

(1)  
    During 2015 and 2014, the Company deconsolidated approximately $244 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, in net assets previously attributable to
nonredeemable noncontrolling interests that were primarily related to or associated with real estate funds sponsored by the Company (see Note 13).      

(2)  
    Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the business segments.                Geographic Information.          
  The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company s non-U.S. business activities are principally conducted and
managed through EMEA and Asia-Pacific locations. The net revenues disclosed in the following table reflect the regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:   

Institutional Securities:  advisory and equity underwriting client location, debt underwriting revenue recording location, sales and
trading trading desk location.            

Wealth Management:  Wealth Management representatives operate in the Americas.      

Investment Management:  client location, except for Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses, which are based on asset location.
               Net Revenues by Region.    
     
           Total Assets by Region.    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Parent Company Only        Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income        (dollars in
millions)          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Parent Company Only    
   Condensed Statements of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Parent Company Only    
   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows        (dollars in millions)          
           Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow
Information.             Cash payments for interest were
$3,959 million, $3,652 million and $3,733 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.            Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were $255 million, $187 million and $268 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
   
    Transactions with Subsidiaries.             The Parent Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and
has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and contractual obligations on certain of its consolidated subsidiaries. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.
            Parent Company s Long-Term Borrowings.    
     
           Guarantees.    
        In the normal course of its business, the Parent Company
guarantees certain of its subsidiaries  obligations under derivative and other financial arrangements. The Parent Company records Trading assets and Trading liabilities, which include derivative contracts, at fair value on its condensed
statements of financial condition.            The Parent
Company also, in the normal course of its business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries for taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities
and stock lending transactions, and certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the
Parent Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Parent Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Parent Company has
not recorded any contingent liability in its condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.   
        The Parent Company has issued guarantees on behalf of its
subsidiaries to various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Parent Company may be required to pay the financial obligations of its
subsidiaries related to business transacted on or with the exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Parent Company has not recorded any contingent liability
in its condensed financial statements for these arrangements and believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements are remote.         
  The Parent Company guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments and warrants totaled $9.1
billion and $10.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. In connection with subsidiary lease obligations, the Parent Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. At December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, the Parent Company had $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion of guarantees outstanding, respectively, under subsidiary lease obligations, primarily in the U.K.   
          Finance Subsidiary.     
        The Parent Company fully and unconditionally guarantees the
securities issued by Morgan Stanley Finance LLC, a 100%-owned finance subsidiary.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

23.   
     Quarterly Results (Unaudited).             

(1)  
    The first quarter of 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a
cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the Company s legal entity organization in the U.K. (see Note 20).      

(2)  
    During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company incurred specific severance costs of approximately $155 million, which is included in Compensation
and benefits expenses in the consolidated statements of income, associated with the Company s restructuring actions, which were recorded in the business segments, approximately, as follows: Institutional Securities: $125 million, Wealth
Management: $20 million and Investment Management: $10 million.      

(3)  
    The second quarter of 2014 included net discrete tax benefits of $609 million, principally associated with the remeasurement of reserves and related
interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination (see Note 20).      

(4)  
    The third quarter of 2014 included net discrete tax benefits of $237 million, primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a
cost lower than originally estimated (see Note 20). The third quarter of 2014 also included a gain on sale of a retail property space of $141 million, which was included within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income and a gain on
sale of its ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc.      

(5)  
    The fourth quarter of 2014 included: an increase of legal reserves of approximately $3.1 billion (see Note 12); net discrete tax benefits of $1,380
million, primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of a legal entity restructuring, partially offset by approximately $900 million of tax provision from non-deductible expenses for litigation and regulatory matters (see
Note 20); compensation expense deferral adjustments of $1.1 billion (see Note 18); and a charge of approximately $468 million related to the implementation of FVA (see Note 2), which was reflected as a reduction of the Institutional Securities
business segment Trading revenues.      

(6)  
    Summation of the quarters  earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and
share equivalents throughout the year.      

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

The Company has evaluated subsequent events for adjustment to or disclosure in its consolidated financial statements through the date of
this report and has not identified any recordable or disclosable events, not otherwise reported in these consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto, except for the following:             Common Stock Dividend.          
  On January 19, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.15. The
dividend was paid on February 15, 2016 to common shareholders of record on January 29, 2016 (see Note 15).         
   Long-Term Borrowings.          
  Subsequent to December 31, 2015 and through February 19, 2016, long-term borrowings increased by approximately $5.2 billion, net
of maturities and repayments. This amount includes the issuance of $5.5 billion of senior debt on January 27, 2016 and $400 million of senior debt on February 17, 2016.   
         Legal Settlement.    
        On February 10, 2016 the Company reached agreements to settle
its pending investigations with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division (the  Civil Division ), the New York Attorney General ( NYAG ), and the Illinois Attorney General ( ILAG ). The Company s
agreement in principle to settle with the Department of Justice for $2,600 million was reached on February 25, 2015 and was disclosed in the 2014 Form 10-K. All amounts associated with the Civil Division, NYAG and ILAG settlements had been
previously accrued.   

Table of Contents  

      FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)    
   Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income    

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    
   Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income        

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    
   Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income        

(1)  
    Interest expense on Trading liabilities is reported as a reduction of Interest income on Trading assets.      

(2)  
    Includes fees paid on securities borrowed.      

(3)  
    Includes interest from customer receivables and other interest earning assets.      

(4)  
    The Company also issues structured notes that have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices,
currencies or commodities, which are recorded within Trading revenues (see Note 3).      

(5)  
    Includes fees received on Securities loaned.      

(6)  
    Includes fees received from prime brokerage customers for stock loan transactions incurred to cover customers  short positions.

Table of Contents  

    FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    
   Rate/Volume Analysis          
   Effect on Net Interest Income of Volume and Rate Changes.          

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    
   Rate/Volume Analysis        

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    
   
    Deposits.    

(1)  
    In 2015, the Company calculated its average balances based on daily amounts. In 2014 and 2013, the Company calculated its average balances based
upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances were unavailable, month-end balances were used.      

(2)  
    The Company s deposits were primarily held in U.S. offices.                Ratios.          

(1)  
    Percentage is based on net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average common equity.

(2)  
    Percentage is based on net income as a percentage of average total equity.      

(3)  
    Percentage is based on dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.      
         Short-Term Borrowings.    

(1)  
    In 2015, the Company calculated its average balances based upon daily amounts. In 2014 and 2013, the Company calculated its average balances based
upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances were unavailable, month-end balances were used.      

(2)  
    Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned period-end balances at December 31, 2015 were lower than the annual
average balances during 2015. The balances moved in line with client financing and with general movements in firm inventory.      

(3)  
    The approximated weighted average interest rate was calculated using (a) interest expense incurred on all securities sold under repurchase
agreements and securities loaned transactions, whether or not such transactions were reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition and (b) average balances that were reported on a net basis where certain criteria were met in
accordance with applicable offsetting guidance. In addition, securities-for-securities transactions in which the Company was the borrower were not included in the average balances since they were not reported in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.      

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    

(4)  
    The approximated weighted average interest rate was calculated using (a) interest expense incurred on all securities sold under repurchase
agreements and securities loaned transactions, whether or not such transactions were reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition and (b) period-end balances that were reported on a net basis where certain criteria were met in
accordance with applicable offsetting guidance. In addition, securities-for-securities transactions in which the Company was the borrower were not included in the period-end balances since they were not reported in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.            
   Cross-Border Outstandings.          
  Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC ) regulatory
guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash, customer and other receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude commitments. Securities purchased under
agreements to resell and securities borrowed are presented based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for related securities collateral held. For information regarding the Company s country risk exposure, see
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Country Risk Exposure  in Part II, Item 7A.   
        The following tables set forth cross-border outstandings for
each country in which cross-border outstandings exceed 1% of the Company s consolidated assets or 20% of the Company s total capital, whichever is less, at December 31, 2015, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013,
respectively, in accordance with the FFIEC guidelines:         

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited) (Continued)    

For cross-border exposure
including derivative contracts that exceeds 0.75% but does not exceed 1% of the Company s consolidated assets, South Korea, Spain and Australia had a total cross-border exposure of $20,527 million at December 31, 2015, Saudi Arabia,
Switzerland, Luxembourg and Australia had a total cross-border exposure of $28,637 million at December 31, 2014; and Ireland, Italy and Luxembourg had a total cross-border exposure of $21,026 million at December 31, 2013.   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.       
        None.   

Item 9A.   
     Controls and Procedures.             
   Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.    
        Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.   
         Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
            Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.         
  Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:   

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company;            

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Company s management and directors; and      

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have
a material effect on our financial statements.               Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
        Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on management s assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.   
        The Company s independent registered public accounting
firm has audited and issued a report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting, which appears below.   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
        To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:
           We have audited the internal control over
financial reporting of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework   (2013)  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
           We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision
of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.            Because of the inherent limitations
of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of
any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of December 31, 2015,
and for the year then ended, and our report dated February 23, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.         
   /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP       New York, New York      February 23, 2016   
         260

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.    
        No change in the Company s internal control over
financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over
financial reporting.         

Item 9B.   
     Other Information.             
  Not applicable.   

Table of Contents  

      Part III    

Item 10.   
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.                Information relating to the Company s directors and nominees in the Company s definitive proxy
statement for its 2016 annual meeting of shareholders ( Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement ) is incorporated by reference herein.         
  Information relating to the Company s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report under  Executive
Officers of Morgan Stanley.             Morgan
Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct on our internet site,  www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance/ethics.html . We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the
Securities and Exchange Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, on our internet site.         

Item 11.   
     Executive Compensation.             
  Information relating to director and executive officer compensation in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.         

Item 12.   
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.       
        Information relating to equity compensation plans and
security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 13.   
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.       
        Information regarding certain relationships and related
transactions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.            Information regarding director independence in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.   

Item 14.   
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services.       
        Information regarding principal accounting fees and services
in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.   

Table of Contents  

      Part IV    

Item 15.   
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.       
          Documents filed as part of this report.

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference.      

Table of Contents  

      Signatures    
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 23, 2016.   

M ORGAN  S TANLEY   
  ( REGISTRANT )    
 
    By:   
     
    /s/    J AMES  P. G ORMAN     

(James P. Gorman)    

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
 
          POWER OF ATTORNEY
            We, the undersigned, hereby severally
constitute Jonathan Pruzan, Eric F. Grossman and Martin M. Cohen, and each of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all
amendments to the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.
           Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23   rd    day of February, 2016.         

Signature    
      
     Title     

/ S /    J AMES  P.
G ORMAN      (James P. Gorman)   
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  
  (Principal Executive Officer)    

/ S /    J ONATHAN 
P RUZAN      (Jonathan Pruzan)   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
  (Principal Financial Officer)    

/ S /    P AUL  C.
W IRTH      (Paul C. Wirth)   
      
    Deputy Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

/ S /    E RSKINE  B.
B OWLES      (Erskine B. Bowles)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    A LISTAIR 
D ARLING      (Alistair Darling)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    T HOMAS  H.
G LOCER      (Thomas H. Glocer)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    R OBERT  H.
H ERZ      (Robert H. Herz)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    N OBUYUKI 
H IRANO      (Nobuyuki Hirano)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    K LAUS 
K LEINFELD      (Klaus Kleinfeld)   
      
  Director    

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/ S /    J AMI 
M ISCIK      (Jami Miscik)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    D ONALD  T.
N ICOLAISEN      (Donald T. Nicolaisen)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    H UTHAM  S.
O LAYAN      (Hutham S. Olayan)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    J AMES  W.
O WENS      (James W. Owens)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    R YOSUKE 
T AMAKOSHI      (Ryosuke Tamakoshi)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    P ERRY  M.
T RAQUINA      (Perry M. Traquina)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    L AURA 
D  ANDREA  T YSON      (Laura D Andrea Tyson)   
      
  Director   

/ S /    R AYFORD  W ILKINS ,
J R .     (Rayford Wilkins, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

Table of Contents  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
  Washington, D.C. 20549         
  EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K         
   For the year ended December 31, 2015       Commission File No. 1-11758         

Table of Contents  

      Exhibit Index    
        Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated
parenthetically, were previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies
under the Exchange Act and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley s Exchange Act file number is  1-11758.  The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group
Inc., a predecessor company ( MSG ), was  1-9085.    1            

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     

2.1  
      
    Integration and Investment Agreement dated as of March 30, 2010 by and between Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. and Morgan Stanley (Exhibit 2.2 to Morgan
Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).    

3.1*  
      
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date.    

3.2  
      
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 29,
2015).    

4.1  
      
    Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 33-57202)).    

4.2  
      
    Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-e to Morgan Stanley s
Registration Statement on  Form S-3/A  (No. 333-75289) as amended by Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).    

4.3  
      
    Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752), as amended by First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 (Exhibit 4.5 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007), Second
Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 2008), Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2008), Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 2008), Fifth Supplemental
Senior Indenture dated as of April 1, 2009 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009), Sixth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 16, 2011 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan
Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011), Seventh Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of November 21, 2011 (Exhibit 4.4 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2011), Eighth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of May 4, 2012 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012), and Ninth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of March 10, 2014
(Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014).    

4.4  
      
    The Unit Agreement Without Holders  Obligations, dated as of August 29, 2008, between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Unit Agent, as
Trustee and Paying Agent under the Senior Indenture referred to therein and as Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement referred to therein (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29,
2008).         

(1)  
    For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to  The Bank of New York  mean in some instances the entity successor to JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association; references to  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to Chemical Bank; references to
 J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago.      

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     

4.5  
      
    Amended and Restated Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).    

4.6  
      
    Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-g to Morgan Stanley s
Registration Statement on Form S-3/A  (No. 333-117752)).     

4.7  
      
    Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 1998).    

4.8  
      
    Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-ww to Morgan Stanley s
Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).    

4.9  
      
    Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).    

4.10  
      
    Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts
described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).    

4.11  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests
in the Series A Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated July 5, 2006).    

4.12  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.11
hereto).    

4.13  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series E Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 2.6 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated September 27, 2013).    

4.14  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E (included in Exhibit 4.13
hereto).    

4.15  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series F Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated December 9, 2013).    

4.16  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (included in Exhibit 4.15
hereto).    

4.17  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series G Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated April 28, 2014).    

4.18  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (included in Exhibit 4.17 hereto).    

4.19  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series H Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 4.6 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 29, 2014).     

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     

4.20  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H (included in Exhibit 4.19
hereto).    

4.21  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series I Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated September 17, 2014).    

4.22  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I (included in Exhibit 4.21
hereto).    

4.23  
      
    Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing
interests in the Series J Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 18, 2015).    

4.24  
      
    Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J (included in Exhibit 4.23
hereto).    

4.25  
      
    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III dated as of February 27, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New
York, as property trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee, and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003).    

4.26  
      
    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV dated as of April 21, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York,
as property trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware Trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003).    

4.27  
      
    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V dated as of July 16, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as
property trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2003).    

4.28  
      
    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII dated as of April 26, 2007 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York,
as property trustee, The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007).    

4.29  
      
    Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures Except as set forth in Exhibits 4.1 through 4.18 above, the instruments
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Morgan Stanley hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the
SEC upon request.    

10.1  
      
    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of October 18, 2011 by and between Morgan Stanley and State Street Bank and Trust Company (Exhibit 10.1 to
Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011).    

10.2  
      
    Transaction Agreement dated as of April 21, 2011 between Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21, 2011).    

10.3  
      
    Amended and Restated Investor Agreement dated as of June 30, 2011 by and between Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (Exhibit 10.1 to
Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2011), as amended by Third Amendment, dated October 3, 2013 (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2013).     

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

*  
    Filed herewith.      

**  
    Furnished herewith.      

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b).

<EX-3.1>
 2
 d48186dex31.htm
 EX-3.1

EX-3.1 

EXHIBIT 3.1   
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    The present name of the corporation is Morgan Stanley. The corporation was incorporated under the name  Sears Acquisition
Corporation  by the filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 1, 1981. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, which restates and
integrates and also further amends the provisions of the corporation s Certificate of Incorporation, was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware by the requisite vote of the holders of the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon at a meeting which was called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware. The Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation is hereby amended, integrated and restated to read in its entirety as follows:  
  ARTICLE I       Name
     The name of the Corporation (which is hereafter referred to as the  Corporation ) is Morgan Stanley.  
  ARTICLE II       Address
     The address of the Corporation s registered office in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange
Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation s registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.  
  ARTICLE III       Purpose
     The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and
incorporated under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.     ARTICLE IV   
   Capitalization      The
total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is three billion five hundred thirty million (3,530,000,000), consisting of thirty million (30,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share
(hereinafter referred to as  Preferred Stock ), and three billion five hundred million (3,500,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as  Common Stock ).  

The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors
is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a  Preferred Stock Designation ), to
establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The
authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:    (1)
The designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title.    (2) The number of shares of the series, which
number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding).  
 (3) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in respect of dividends, and whether such dividends, if any,
shall be cumulative or noncumulative.    (4) Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.  
 (5) The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series.  
 (6) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series.  
 (7) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.    (8) Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible into or
exchangeable for shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series of such other security, the conversion or exchange price or prices
or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates at which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made.  
 (9) Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series.  
 (10) The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series.  
 The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof. Except as may be provided in this
Certificate of Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation or by applicable law, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each such share upon all questions presented to the stockholders, the Common Stock shall
have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other  
      2  

purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote. The holders of the shares of Common Stock
shall at all times, except as otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or as required by law, vote as one class, together with the holders of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation accorded such general voting rights.
   The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all
purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.  
 The voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions, of the Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, are set forth in  Exhibit A  hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.  
  ARTICLE V       By-Laws
     In furtherance of, and not in limitation of, the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized and
empowered:      (1) to adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation;  provided, however,  that the Bylaws adopted by the
Board of Directors under the powers hereby conferred may be amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto; and    
 (2) from time to time to determine whether and to what extent, and at what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the
accounts and books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of stockholders; and, except as so determined or as expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or in any Preferred Stock Designation, no stockholder
shall have any right to inspect any account, book or document of the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by applicable law.  
 The Corporation may in its Bylaws confer powers upon the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and
authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by applicable law.     ARTICLE VI   
   Action of Stockholders    
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing in
lieu of a meeting of such stockholders.  
      3  

ARTICLE VII   
   Board of Directors    
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate
of Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed in such manner as prescribed in the Bylaws of the Corporation and may be increased or decreased from time to
time in such manner as prescribed by the Bylaws.    Unless and except to the extent that the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so require, the
election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.    The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders
of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation, shall be elected annually at each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to hold office for a term expiring at the
next annual meeting of stockholders, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.  
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate
of Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase
in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the
next annual meeting of stockholders, and until such director s successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent
director.    Any director may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause.  
  ARTICLE VIII   
   Indemnification    
 Each person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from
time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the
Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect. The Corporation may, by action of the Board of
Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation, to directors, officers, employees or agents of a subsidiary, and to each person serving as a director, officer, partner, member,
employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, at the request of the Corporation, with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers
of the Corporation.  
      4  

The Corporation shall be required to indemnify any person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part
thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person s claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise by the Corporation. Without limiting the
generality or the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person which provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in this Article VIII. Any amendment or repeal of this Article
VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.  
  ARTICLE IX   
   Directors  Liability    
 A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of
fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (1) for any breach of the director s duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (2) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a
knowing violation of law, (3) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (4) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Any amendment or repeal of this Article
IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.  
 If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware shall be amended, to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the
liability of directors, then a director of the Corporation, in addition to the circumstances in which he is not liable immediately prior to such amendment, shall be free of liability to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware, as so amended.     ARTICLE X   
   Amendments      Except
as may be expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred
Stock Designation, and any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by applicable law, and all rights, preferences and
privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this
Article X; provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VIII or Article IX of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing thereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to
such amendment or repeal, and provided further that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock
Designation and the requirements of applicable law.  
      5  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 9 th  day of April, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By:     
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  

Name:     
   
 Martin M. Cohen  

Office: 
   
   Vice President and Counsel   and Assistant
Secretary   

6  

Exhibit A   
 DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 The designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A ( Series A ) are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation.  The distinctive
serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A.  Each share of Series A shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A, except as to the respective dates
from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.    2.
 Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of Series A shall be 46,000. Shares of Series A that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled
and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series A by any subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.  Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Series A:  
 (a)  Allowable Capital  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (b)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (c)  Bylaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.  
 (d)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which
banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.  
 (e)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such
agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when
the Series A is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.  

(f)  Capital Units  means the outstanding Capital Units of the
Corporation and of Morgan Stanley Finance plc. Each Capital Unit consists of a subordinated debenture issued by Morgan Stanley Finance plc and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis, and a related purchase contract issued by the
Corporation that requires the holder to purchase one depositary share representing ownership of multiple shares of the Corporation s cumulative preferred stock.  
 (g)  Capital Units Cumulative Preferred Stock  means shares, if any, of the Corporation s 8.03% Cumulative
Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated value $200 per share, which the Corporation may issue under the terms of the outstanding Capital Units.  
 (h)  Certificate of Designation  means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series A, as it may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.    (i)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated
certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (j)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (k)  Dividend Determination Date  means, for each Dividend Period, the second London Business Day immediately
preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (l)  Dividend Payment Date  means
January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year.    (m)  Dividend Period 
has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    (n)  Dividend Record Date  has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a).    (o)  Junior Stock  means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks
junior to Series A as to the payment of dividends. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.    (p)  LIBOR  has the
meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    (q)  Liquidation Preference  has the meaning set forth in
Section 5(b).    (r)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)
 Nonpayment  has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).  
      A-2  

(t)  Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation that ranks equally with the Series A in the payment of dividends.    (u)  Preferred Stock  means any
and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series A.    (v)  Preferred Stock Directors 
has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).    (w)  Regulations  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.
   (x)  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (y)  Tier 1 Capital Equivalent  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (z)  Voting Preferred Stock  means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally
with the Series A as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Capital Units Cumulative
Preferred Stock, if issued, and any class or series of cumulative Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of
the shares of Series A and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends.   
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series A will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the original issue date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on October 15, 2006. These dividends will accrue, with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below), on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) three-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR (as defined below) on the related Dividend Determination Date plus .70% or (2) 4%. In the event that the Corporation issues
additional shares of Series A after the original issue date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the original issue date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares
are issued.    Dividends that are payable on Series A on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of
Series A as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date
fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend
Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.  
      A-3  

A  Dividend Period  is the period from and including a Dividend Payment
Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series A issued on the original issue date will commence on and include the original issue date of
the Series A and will end on and exclude the October 15, 2006 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series A issued after the original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such
other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series A will be computed by
the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period will be calculated from the original issue date. If any date on which dividends would
otherwise be payable is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that
is a Business Day.    For any Dividend Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Page 3750, or any successor page, on Moneyline Telerate Inc., or any successor service, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that
Dividend Determination Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London
offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for
a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is
representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two
quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York
City, as selected by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount
that is  
      A-4  

representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend
Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.  
 The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any
Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
 Holders of Series A shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series A as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series A will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series A payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series A are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series A will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series A, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series A (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series A, if required) and (iii) except as described in the following sentence, at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. The Series A will rank junior as to payment of dividends, but on a parity as to amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
with any Capital Units Cumulative Preferred Stock, any other class or series of cumulative Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future and any other class or series of Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future
that is expressly stated to be senior as to payment of dividends, but on a parity as to amounts payable upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Series A.  
      A-5  

So long as any share of Series A remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution
shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest
completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series A has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:  

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series A and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series A and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series A and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series A, from time to time out of any funds legally available for
such payment, and the Series A shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
      A-6  

5.  Liquidation Rights.   
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all
liabilities, if any, to creditors of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior
to the Series A as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such
distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have
received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in
Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series A and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series A as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series A
and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation
on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series A and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an
amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).    (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution, the holders of other stock of the Corporation
shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Series A may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to July 15, 2011. On or after
July 15, 2011, subject to obtaining any then required regulatory approval, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at  
      A-7  

any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share,
together (except as otherwise provided herein below), for the purposes of the redemption price only, with an amount equal to dividends accrued but unpaid for the then current Dividend Period at the rate set forth in Section 4(a) to, but
excluding, the date fixed for redemption (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared for that Dividend Period). The redemption price for any shares of Series A shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares
against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any accrued and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for
a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment
Date as provided in Section 4 above.    (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series A will not be subject to any mandatory
redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series A will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series A.  
 (c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing
interests in the Series A are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series A at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each
such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series A to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from
such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to
the holder thereof.  
      A-8  

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly
given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of
any shares of Series A so called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the
redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date
cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
   7.  Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes.  If both (i) and (ii) below occur:     
 (i) after June 26, 2006, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or
guidance (together,  Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to
consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or
its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital
described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1 Capital Equivalent ), and    (ii)
the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series A for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series A in Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under
such Regulations,    then, upon such affirmative election, the Series A shall be convertible at the Corporation s option into a new
series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially  
      A-9  

identical to those of the Series A, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof,
as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as
defined below),  provided  that the Corporation shall not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers,
and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, taken as a whole.    As used above, the term
 Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing),
required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.    The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series A of any
election to qualify the Series A for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series A into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the
effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the
Corporation. Any conversion of the Series A pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.  
 Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series A shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares
into any other securities.      8.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The holders of Series A shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from to time required by law.    (b)  Right To Elect
Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series A, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for
consecutive dividend periods (a  Nonpayment ), the  
      A-10  

holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two
additional members of the Board of Directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock
Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series A or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice,
signed by the requisite holders of Series A or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will
continue until dividends on the shares of the Series A and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at
least four regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend
periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series A and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series A and all other
holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of
directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to
pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A together
with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock
Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the
outstanding shares of Series A and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
      A-11  

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series A are
outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series A with respect to the distribution of assets upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series A . Any amendment, alteration or
repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of
the Series A, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series A remain outstanding or, in the case of
any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such
shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the
holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A, taken as a whole;     provided ,
 however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series A or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of
Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series A with respect to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and ranking senior to or equally with the Series A with respect to the payment of dividends
will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series A. In addition, any conversion of the Series A
pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 8(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all  
      A-12  

other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series A for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall
vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series A, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series A that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series A shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series A shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series A (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series A is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series A are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    9.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series A may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series A as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
      A-13  

10.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series A shall be sufficiently
given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
   11.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series A shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the
Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 12.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series A shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      A-14  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES B
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the
Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on September 28, 2008, the creation of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation
preference $1,000 per share (  Series B  ) of the Corporation was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series B, in
addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.
 Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every
other share of Series B, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  
 2.      Number of Shares     . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 6,045,750. Shares of Series B
that are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into Common Stock or another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided that this
Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series B by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.    3.
 Dividends .    (a)      Rate     . Holders of shares of Series B shall be entitled to receive, only when, as
and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal
to 10%. Declared dividends on the Series B shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than
the initial Dividend Period), and shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment
Date  ). If any date on which dividends would otherwise  

be payable shall not be a Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding
day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Dividend Payment Date, and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next
succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be
closed.    Dividends on the Series B shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not
declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series B payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series B are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date
shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend Period   means the period
from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of the Series B and shall end on but
exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series B shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)      Priority of Dividends   .   The Series B will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below)
and any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series B, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series B (issued with
the requisite consent of the Holders of the Series B, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend  
      -2-  

Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement
with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series
of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock
or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the
redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the
same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the
Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.      When dividends are
not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling
within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend
payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each
other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.      Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash,
securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior
to the Series B, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
     4.      Liquidation Rights   .    
 (a)      Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation.      In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction
of all liabilities, if  
      -3-  

any, to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or      pari
passu      with the Series B in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series B as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that
have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any
other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)      Partial
Payment.      If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series B and
all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the Holders of Series B and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid      pro rata     
in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series B and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation
shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case
of any holder of stock other than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)      Residual Distributions.      If the Liquidation Preference on the Series B and any other shares of the
Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to
their respective rights and preferences.    (d)      Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation.     
For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property
for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 5.  Voting Rights.   
      -4-  

(a)      General   .   The Holders of Series B shall not have any voting
rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
 (b)      Right to Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events   .   If and whenever dividends on any shares of the
Series B, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares,
voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock
Directors        provided      that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which
the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and      provided further      that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two
Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least
20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at
such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series B or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 16 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will continue
until dividends on the shares of the Series B and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at least four
regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series B and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series B and all other holders of Voting
Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the
Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any
dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time
without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights
described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any  
      -5-  

vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in
office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);
 provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that
listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series B as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the
Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ), if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the
extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to
the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.    (c)      Other Voting Rights   .   So long as any
shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series B and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for
effecting or validating:    (i)      Authorization of Senior Stock   .   Any amendment or alteration
of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with
respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
 (ii)        Amendment of Series B   .   Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a
whole; or  
      -6-  

(iii)      Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and
Consolidations   .   Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B
remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as
permitted by clause (x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the
holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole;     provided, however , that for all
purposes of this Section 5(c), neither the issuance of any Series B in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (as defined below) as in effect on the date hereof nor the creation and issuance, or an increase in the
authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and neither will require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of
Series B. In addition, any conversion of the Series B pursuant hereto shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series B shall have any
voting rights with respect to any binding share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which
a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series B for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise
entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the
proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status
and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
      -7-  

(d)      Changes for Clarification   .   Without the consent of the
holders of the Series B, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any
terms of the Series B:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters
or questions arising with respect to the Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    (e)
     Procedures for Voting and Consents   .   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith),
the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or
other trading facility on which the Series B is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any
matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
 6.  Redemption . The shares of Series B shall not be redeemable.  
 7.  Rank . Any stock of any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:  
 (a) prior to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of
such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the
Series B;    (b) on a parity with shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Series B, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms
thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the
other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series B (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Series B, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and    (c) junior to shares of the Series B, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or classes or series shall be common stock or if  
      -8-  

the Holders of the Series B shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to
the holders of stock of such class or classes or series.    The Series B shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, on a parity with the Series A and any Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional Definitions . As used
herein with respect to Series B:      Capital Stock   of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase,
warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.  
   Cash   means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public
and private debts.      Close of Business   means 5:00 p.m., New York City time.  
   Closing Price   of the Common Stock or any securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, means, as of any date of
determination:    (a) the closing price on that date or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price, of shares of the
Common Stock or such other securities on the New York Stock Exchange on that date; or    (b) if the Common Stock or such other securities
are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other securities are so traded or,
if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price of shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other securities are so traded on
that date; or    (c) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not traded on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the
last quoted bid price on that date for the Common Stock or such other securities in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization; or  
 (d) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not so quoted by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization, the market price of the
Common Stock or such other securities on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking not affiliated with the Corporation retained by the Corporation for this purpose.  
 For the purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the closing price and the last reported sale price of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock  
      -9-  

Exchange shall be such closing price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service;
provided that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing price and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing price and the
last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.      Common Stock   means the common
stock, $0.01 par value, of the Corporation.      Conversion Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as conversion agent for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.  
   Conversion Date   means each of a Mandatory Conversion Date and a  Non-Mandatory 
Conversion Date.      Conversion Price   at any time means for each share of Series B the price equal to $1,000 divided by
the Conversion Rate in effect at such time (initially $31.25).      Conversion Rate   means initially 32 shares of Common
Stock per share of Series B, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.  
   Depositary     means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.    
   DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
   Ex-Dividend Date   means the first date on which the Common Stock trades, regular way, on the relevant exchange, or in the
relevant market from which the Closing Price was obtained, without the right to receive such dividend or distribution.      Fair
Market Value   means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm s-length transaction as determined by the Board of Directors.  
   Full Mandatory Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the first date after the second anniversary
of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning after such second anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable
Conversion Price.  
      -10-  

Fundamental Change   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, of one of the following:    (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13( d) of the
Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of
common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock;    (ii) consummation of any
consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries,
taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive a distribution of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other
than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction;
or    (iii) shares of the Common Stock or shares of any other stock into which the Series B is convertible are not listed for trading on any
United States national securities exchange or cease to be traded in contemplation of a delisting (other than as a result of a transaction described in clause (ii) above);  
  provided ,  however , that a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if at
least 90% of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities
exchange or that will be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change; and  provided ,  further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its
affiliates, a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) or (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a
counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.        Holder   means the
Person in whose name the shares of Series B are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, dividend disbursing agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series B for the purpose of
disbursing dividends and settling conversions and for all other purposes.      Initial Holder   means Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group, Inc.      Issue Date   means the date of original issuance of any share of Series B.  
   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series B as to the payment
of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
      -11-  

Make-Whole Acquisition   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, of one of the following:    (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the
Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of
common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock; or    (ii) consummation of
any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries,
taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive distributions of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other
than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction;
    provided ,  however , that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by
holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or that will be so traded when issued
or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition; and  provided ,  further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be
deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above. 
      Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price   means the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole
Acquisition. If such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share of Common Stock. If such consideration consists of any property other than cash, the Make-Whole
Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.  
   Mandatory Conversion Date   means a Partial Mandatory Conversion Date or a Full Mandatory Conversion Date.  
   Non-Mandatory Conversion Date   means an Early Conversion Date, a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Date or a Fundamental
Change Conversion Date.      Open of Business   means 9:00 a.m., New York City time.  
      -12-  

Ownership Limit   means a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 0.149 times
the sum, without duplication, of (1) the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock on such date of measurement and (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock to be converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date.  
   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series B in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.      Partial Mandatory Conversion
Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the first date after the first anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning after such first anniversary and
preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price.  
   Person   means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association,
joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.      Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock
of the Corporation, including the Series B.      Reference Price   means the price per share of Common Stock in connection
with a Fundamental Change. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in connection with the Fundamental Change, the Reference Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise the Reference Price shall be the average of the
Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Fundamental Change.  
   Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as registrar for the Series B, and its
successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.      Securities Purchase Agreement   means the
Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2007, between the Corporation and the Investor listed on the signature page thereto.  
   Subsidiary   means with respect to any Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the
voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent (50%) of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more
of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.      Trading Day   means a day on which the
Common Stock (i) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the Close of Business and (ii) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities
exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.  
      -13-  

Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as transfer agent for the Series B, and its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.  
 9.      Early Conversion at the Option of the Holder     . Other than during a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Period, any Holder shall have the right to convert such Holder s shares of Series B, in whole or in part (but in no event less than one share of Series B), at any time prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date (  Early
Conversion  ), into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate, subject to satisfaction of the conversion procedures set forth in Section 10(b). The date of such Early Conversion is referred to herein as the
  Early Conversion Date .     10.  Conversion .  
 (a)  Mandatory Conversion on Mandatory Conversion Date .  
 (i) On the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, one half of the outstanding shares of Series B held by each Holder thereof will mandatorily
convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate;      provided      that to the extent such conversion would result in the number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder
and its affiliates exceeding the Ownership Limit (such shares of Common Stock that would exceed the Ownership Limit, the   Excess Shares  ) the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted on the Partial Mandatory
Conversion Date shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates equal the Ownership Limit; and
     provided further     , that to the extent that there are Excess Shares and shares of Common Stock are issued upon settlement of the equity units sold pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement after the Partial
Mandatory Conversion Date and prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, outstanding shares of Series B held by the Initial Holder will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock (but not greater than the number of Excess Shares) at the then
applicable Conversion Rate provided that the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock
beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates do not exceed the Ownership Limit. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion
of Series B will be treated as the record Holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Partial
Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting
rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.  
      -14-  

(ii) On the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, all of the outstanding shares of Series B will
mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of
Series B will be treated as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights
to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.  
 (iii) In addition to the number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Section 10(a), if applicable, the Holders on a
Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to any declared and unpaid dividends on the Series B for the most recent Dividend Period ending on a Mandatory Conversion Date to the extent such Holders were the Holders of
record as of the Dividend Record Date for such dividend.    (b)  Conversion Procedures for a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date . To effect
conversion on a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, a Holder who:    (i) holds a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing the
Series B must deliver to DTC the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to DTC s conversion program and, if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e) and, if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any; or    (ii) holds shares of Series B
in certificated form must:    (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Series B certificate or
a facsimile of the conversion notice;    (B) deliver the completed conversion notice and the certificated shares of Series B
to be converted to the Conversion Agent;    (C) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;  
 (D) if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e); and    (E) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any.  
      -15-  

The conversion will be effective on the date on which a Holder has satisfied all of the foregoing
requirements, to the extent applicable, which shall be the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. A Holder will not be required to pay any transfer or similar taxes or duties relating to the issuance or delivery of Common Stock if such Holder
exercises its conversion rights, but such Holder will be required to pay any transfer or similar tax or duty that may be payable relating to any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of Common Stock in a name other than the name of such
Holder. A certificate representing Common Stock will be issued and delivered only after all applicable taxes and duties, if any, payable by the Holder have been paid in full.  
 The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder(s)
of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. No allowance or adjustment, except as set forth in Section 11(a), shall be made in respect of dividends payable to Holders of Common
Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series B shall not be deemed outstanding
for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by
virtue of holding shares of Series B.    In the event that a conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series B representing fewer
than all the shares of Series B held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation shall execute and the Registrar shall countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of
Series B as to which conversion was not effected.    The Corporation shall deliver the shares of Common Stock to which the Holder converting
pursuant to Section 9(a) is entitled on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately following the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.  
 (c)  Conversion Upon Make-Whole Acquisition .  
 (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to convert its shares of Series B (a
  Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion  ) at the then applicable Conversion Rate during the period (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period  ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition (the
  Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock in the form of Make-Whole Shares as set forth
in this Section 10(c). The date of such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is referred to herein as the    Make-Whole  Acquisition Conversion Date .   
      -16-  

(ii) The number of   Make-Whole Shares   shall be determined for
the Series B by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:      
   (A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in
the table above, in which case:    (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock
Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the
higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;  
 (2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no
Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B; and    (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is
less than $25.25 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B.  
 (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above (and the corresponding prices set forth in clauses
(2) and (3) above) are subject to adjustment pursuant hereto and shall be adjusted as of any date the  
      -17-  

Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above) shall equal the Make-Whole Acquisition
Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above), respectively, applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the
adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price adjustments and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Make-Whole Shares in the table above shall also be subject to adjustment in the same
manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section II.    (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the
Corporation anticipates consummating the Make-Whole Acquisition (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice
shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date on which the Make-Whole Acquisition is anticipated to be effected;  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Acquisition
conversion option must be exercised;    (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of
Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and    (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in
connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition.    (iv) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(c)(iii), comply with the procedures set forth in Section 10(b).
   (v) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this
Section 10(c), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it shall remain outstanding but shall not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares.  
 (vi) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in
the Make-Whole Acquisition.  
      -18-  

(vii) In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with
respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the
Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by
the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.    (viii) If a Holder elects to convert its
shares of Series B in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition, such Holder shall not be entitled to an adjusted conversion price pursuant to Section 10(g) to the extent such Make-Whole Acquisition also constitutes a Fundamental Change.  
 (d)      Registration of Common Stock     . In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name
in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Series B should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to
register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records
of the Corporation.    (e)      Dividends     . If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to
convert Series B is prior to the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period in which such Holder is electing to convert, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared
dividends for that Dividend Period. If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such
Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment Date if such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Non-Mandatory
Conversion Date is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date and prior to the Open of Business on the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date, the
Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares of Series B an amount in cash equal to the dividend payable on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series B being converted.  
 (f)      Outstanding Shares of Series B     . Shares of Series B shall cease to be outstanding on the applicable
Conversion Date, subject to the right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series B.  
   (g)  Conversion Upon Fundamental Change  .      
 (i) If the Reference Price in connection with a Fundamental Change is less than the then applicable Conversion Price, a Holder
may convert each share of Series B  
      -19-  

during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at an adjusted conversion
price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $12.625, subject to adjustment as described herein (the   Base Price  ). The date of such conversion upon a Fundamental Change is referred to herein as the
  Fundamental Change Conversion Date .     (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion
Rate of the Series B is adjusted pursuant hereto. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the
adjustment giving rise to the Base Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders shall receive a maximum of 79.2079 shares of Common Stock per share
of Series B (subject to adjustment in a manner inverse to the adjustments to the Base Price).    (iii) On or before the 20 th  day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Fundamental Change (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Fundamental Change
described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall
contain:    (A) the date on which the Fundamental Change is anticipated to be effected; and  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which the Fundamental Change
conversion option must be exercised.    (iv) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change, another written notice shall be
sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;  
 (B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;  
 (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and
   (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Fundamental Change.
 
      -20-  

(v) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(g)(iv), comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 10(b).    (vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change pursuant
to this Section 10(g), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it will remain outstanding but shall not thereafter be entitled to convert in accordance with Section 10(g).  
 (vii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted
conversion price following the Fundamental Change.    (viii) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
effected with respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion
Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a
conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected.    (ix) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in
connection with a Fundamental Change, such Holder shall not be entitled to Make-Whole Shares pursuant to Section 10(c) to the extent such Fundamental Change also constitutes a Make-Whole Acquisition.  
 (h) A Holder cannot effect both a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion and a Fundamental Change Conversion with respect to a share of Series B.
   (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Certificate of Designations, a Holder of shares of Series B shall not, for a period
of 35 calendar days after any Conversion Date, sell any shares of Common Stock or other equity securities it receives upon conversion of the shares it converted on such Conversion Date.  
 11.  Anti-Dilution Adjustments .  
      -21-  

(a) The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Corporation as follows:  
 (i) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, issues shares of Common Stock as a dividend
or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination in respect of the Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:  
   
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or combination, as
applicable;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as
applicable;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share
combination, as applicable; and  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as applicable.  
   The Corporation will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in treasury
by the Corporation.    (ii) Except as otherwise provided for by Section 11(a)(iv) below, if the Corporation, at any time or from time
to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the Record Date of
such distribution to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Record Date of such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be
adjusted based on the following formula:      
 
      -22-  

where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

X  
    
 = 
    
 the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants; and  

Y  
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants divided by the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on
the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.  
   To the extent that shares of common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the
expiration or termination of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the distribution of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of
the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.    In determining the aggregate price payable to exercise such
rights or warrants, there shall be taken into account any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  
      -23-  

(iii) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 11(a)(i) above), evidences
of its indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Capital Stock or other securities, but excluding (i) dividends or distributions as to which an adjustment under Section 11(a)(i),
Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 11(a)(iv) hereof shall apply, (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in Cash and (iii) Spin-Offs to which the provision set forth below in this Section 11(a)(iii) shall apply (any of
such shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Common Stock or other securities, hereinafter in this Section 11(a)(iii) called the   Distributed Property  ),
then, in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   Where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and  

FMV  
    
 = 
    
 the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) of the portion of Distributed Property with respect to each outstanding share of Common Stock on the Record Date for such
distribution.  
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the
Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall
distribute to each Holder on the date the Distributed Property is distributed to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Distributed Property such Holder would have received had
such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the record date fixed for determination for stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any
distribution for purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it shall in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the
Closing Prices of the Common Stock for purposes of calculating SP 0  in the formula in this Section 11(a)(iii).  
      -24-  

With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii) where there has been a
payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock consisting of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (a
  Spin-Off  ), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Close of Business on the tenth Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
     
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the
Spin-Off;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect from and after the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin
Off;  

FMV  
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Capital Stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following,
and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; and  

MP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.  
   Such adjustment shall occur on the 10 th  Trading Day
immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off (it being agreed that notwithstanding Section 9(a), the Holder of the Series B shall not be entitled to convert the Series B pursuant to an Early Conversion prior to such
10 th  Trading Day).    For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii),
Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 11(a)(iii) is applicable that also includes shares of common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common
Stock to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock
or rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 11(a)(iii) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by
(2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 11(a)(i) and 11(a)(ii)
hereof with respect to such dividend or distribution  
      -25-  

shall then be made), except (A) the Close of Business on the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for  the Close of Business on the Record Date, 
 the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date,   after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share
split or share combination  and  the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such
dividend or distribution shall not be deemed  outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) hereof.  
 (iv) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes rights or warrants to all
holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for, purchase or convert into shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a
specified event or events (  Trigger Event  ): (x) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (y) are not exercisable; and (z) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be
deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 11(a)(iii) above, (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 11(a)(iii) above will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event and a distribution
or deemed distribution under the terms of such rights or warrants at which time an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made in the same manner as provided for under Section 11(a)(iii) above. If any such
rights or warrants are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event
shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition,
in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate under this Section 11(a)(iv) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon
such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common
Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that
shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued.  
      -26-  

(v) (1) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, makes a regular, quarterly Cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period that exceeds $0.27 (the   Initial Dividend Threshold  ), the Conversion Rate
shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C  
    
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock in excess of the Initial Dividend Threshold.  
     The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion
Rate;  provided  that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (1) or (2) of this Section 11(a)(v).    
 (2) If the Corporation pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or
substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  
 
      -27-  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C  
    
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of common Stock  
   (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the portion of the Cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common
Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall distribute to each Holder on the date the Cash dividend or distribution is
paid to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the
Record Date for such dividend or distribution. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been
declared.    (4) For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this Section 11(a)(v), in the event of any reclassification of the Common
Stock, as a result of which the Series B becomes convertible into more than one class of Common Stock, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required pursuant to this Section 11(a)(v), references in this Section to one share of Common
Stock or Closing Price of one share of Common Stock shall be deemed to refer to a unit or to the price of a unit consisting of the number of shares of each class of Common Stock into which the Series B is then convertible equal to the numbers of
shares of such class issued in respect of one share of Common Stock in such reclassification. The above provisions of this paragraph shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications.  
 (vi) If the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment of Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange
offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where such Cash and the value of any such other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day next succeeding the last date (the  expiration date ) on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following
formula:      
 
      -28-  

Where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

AC  
    
 = 
    
 the aggregate value of all Cash and any other consideration (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) paid or payable for shares purchased in such tender or exchange offer;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires;  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the date such tender or exchange offer expires (after giving effect to such tender offer or exchange offer); and  

SP 1   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day next succeeding the expiration date.  
   If the Corporation or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender
or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that had been effected. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11(a)(vi) with respect to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this
Section 11(a)(vi).    (vii) For purposes of this Section 11(a) the term   Record Date   shall mean, with respect to
any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted
into any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or
otherwise).  
      -29-  

(viii) If application of the formulas provided in Sections 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii), 11(a)(iii),
11(a)(iv), 11(a)(v) or 11(a)(vi) above would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment (other than a readjustment as described in such sections) to the Conversion Rate shall be made except in the case of a share split or combination
of the Common Stock.    (ix) If one or more events occur requiring an adjustment be made to the Conversion Rate for a particular period,
adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors to reflect the combined impact of such Conversion Rate adjustments, as set out in this Section 11(a), during such period.  
 (x) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing clauses in this Section II, no adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless the
adjustment would result in a change in the Conversion Rate of at least 1.00%;      provided      ,       however     , that any adjustment which by reason of this Section 11(a)(x) is not
required to be made shall be carried forward and the Corporation shall make such adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1.00%, within one year of the first such adjustment carried forward or in connection with any
conversion of Series B. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.  
 No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made (i) for issuances of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan for
reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation s securities or the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan, (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or
rights to purchase shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of, or assumed by, the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series B was first issued, (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock, (v) for repurchases of shares of common
Stock in open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions, or (vi) for accumulated and unpaid dividends, other than as expressly contemplated by Section 11(a)(i).  
 No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made pursuant to Section 11(a)(i) through (ix) above for a transaction if Holders are
permitted to participate in the transaction without conversion, concurrently with the holders of Common Stock, on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in good faith to be fair and appropriate in light of
the basis and notice to holders of Common Stock participating in the transaction.    Whenever a provision of this Certificate of
Designations requires the calculation of an average of the Closing Price over a span of multiple days, the Corporation will make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event
requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which the average is to be
calculated.  
      -30-  

(xi) Upon conversion of the Series B, the Holders shall receive, in addition to any shares of
Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, any associated rights issued under any shareholder rights agreement of the Corporation that provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series B at any time prior to the
distribution of separate certificates representing such rights will be entitled to receive such rights unless, prior to conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, expired, terminated or been redeemed or exchanged in accordance with
such rights plan, and no adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11(a)(iv) hereof. If, prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of
separation as if the Corporation distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants as described in Section 11(a)(iv) hereof, subject to readjustment in the
event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.    (xii) Subject to applicable stock exchange rules and listing
standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 Business Days if the Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the best interests in the Corporation;
     provided      the Corporation has given to the Conversion Agent and DTC at least 15 days  prior notice of any such increase in the Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect. Subject to
applicable stock exchange rules and listing standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate, in addition to the events requiring an increase in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11 hereof, as it in its
discretion shall determine to be advisable in order to avoid or diminish any tax to shareholders in connection with any stock dividends, subdivisions of shares, distributions of rights to purchase stock or securities or distributions of securities
convertible into or exchangeable for stock hereafter made by the Corporation to its shareholders or other events.    (xiii) Whenever the
Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Corporation will issue a notice to the Conversion Agent and DTC containing the relevant information and make this information available on the Corporation s website. In addition, the
Corporation shall provide upon the request of a Holder of Series B, to the extent not posted on the Corporation website, a brief statement setting forth in reasonable detail how the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth
the adjusted Conversion Rate.    (xiv) For purposes of this Section 11, the number of shares of common Stock at any time outstanding
shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.  
 (xv) If the record date for a dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date and the payment date for a
dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs after a Mandatory Conversion Date, and such dividend or distribution would have resulted in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate if such dividend or distribution does not result in an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate but were paid prior to such Mandatory Conversion Date, then without duplication the Corporation shall deem the Holders to be holders  
      -31-  

of record of Common Stock for purposes of that dividend or distribution. In that case, the Holders will receive the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the applicable Mandatory
Conversion Date together with the dividend or distribution on such shares of Common Stock so converted.      12.  Reorganization
Events.     (a) In the event of:  
 (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person or of another Person with or into the Corporation;  
 (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety;
   (iii) any statutory share exchange of the Corporation with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); or
   (iv) any liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Corporation;  
 in each case in which holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock (any such event
specified in this Section 12(a), a   Reorganization Event  ), each share of Series B outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the kind of cash,
securities and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of one share of common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such cash, securities and other property,
the   Exchange Property  ).    (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect
the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the  Exchange Property  that Holders of the Series B will be entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by
the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). The number of units of Exchange Property for each share of Series B converted following the effective date of such Reorganization
Event shall be determined based on the Conversion Rate then in effect on the applicable Conversion Date, determined as if the references to a  share of Common Stock  in this Certificate of Designations were to  unit of Exchange
Property.     (c) After a Reorganization Event, for purposes of determining whether a Mandatory Conversion Date has occurred, the term
 Closing Price  shall be deemed to refer to the closing sale price, last quoted bid price or mid-point of the last bid and ask prices, as the case may be, of any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange
Property. For purposes of this Section 12, references to Common Stock in the definition of  Trading Day  shall be replaced by references to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property.  
      -32-  

(d) The above provisions of this Section 12 shall similarly apply to successive
Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 11 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.  
 (e) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the
Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12 or the
validity of any Reorganization Event.      13.  Fractional Shares.   
 (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series B.  
 (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a)
or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 9(a), Section 10(c) or Section 10(g), the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of:  
 (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a), a Make Whole Acquisition conversion pursuant to Section 10(c) or
a Conversion Upon Fundamental Change pursuant to Section 10(g), the average of the Closing Prices over the five consecutive Trading Day period preceding the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Conversion Date; or  
 (ii) in the case of an Early Conversion pursuant to Section 9(a), the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the second Trading Day
immediately preceding the Early Conversion Date.    (c) If more than one share of the Series B is surrendered for conversion at one time by
or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so surrendered.  
   14.  Reservation of common Stock.   
 (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the
treasury by the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to
time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the number of shares of common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series B
shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.  
      -33-  

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion
of shares of Series B, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges,
security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (c) All
shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges,
security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall
be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval
of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.    (e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any
time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and
keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B;      provided      , however     ,
that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series B into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation
covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.  
 15.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem
and treat the record holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
 16.      Notices     . All notices or communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in
writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.  
 17.      Preemptive or Subscription Rights     . Except as expressly provided in any agreement between a Holder and
the Corporation, no share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such
warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      -34-  

18.      Repurchase     . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the
Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series B from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;      provided,
however     , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 19.      Other Rights     . The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law.  
 [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -35-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this
certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 10 th  day of October, 2008.  

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
   /s/ Daniel B. Park   

Name:  Daniel B. Park   

Title:  Assistant Treasurer   

AMENDED   
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES B
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:  
 A. That, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on
September 28, 2008, and by a Certificate of Designations filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 10, 2008, the Corporation authorized the issuance of 6,045,750 shares of 10% Series B Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series B  ), of the Corporation and established the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other
special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series B;    B. That no shares of Series B have been issued;  
 C. That, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on
October 12, 2008, the Corporation adopted the following resolution amending the Certificate of Designations of the Series B and increasing the number of shares designated as Series B:  
  RESOLVED, that, pursuant to Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Designations of Rights and
Preferences of the 10% Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation be and hereby is amended to read in its entirety as follows, and the number of shares designated as Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation be increased from 6,045,750 to 7,839,209:     1.  Designation . The
distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B,
except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  

2.  Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 7,839,209.
Shares of Series B that are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into Common Stock or another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided
that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series B by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.    Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of shares of Series B shall be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 10%;  provided , that, if Stockholder
Approval has not been received by February 17, 2009, if such Stockholder Approval is then required for the conversion of all of the Series B without a Violation, the per annum rate shall be increased to 13% per annum on and including
February 17, 2009 and shall remain in effect until the date upon which Stockholder Approval is received or no longer required. Declared dividends on the Series B shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of
the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than the initial Dividend Period), and shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, on each
January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment Date  ). If any date on which dividends would otherwise be payable shall not be a
Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the
Dividend Payment Date, and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is
not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.  
 Dividends on the Series B shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee
thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series B payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend
Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series B are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly  
      -2-  

authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day
that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend
Period   means the period from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of
the Series B and shall end on but exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series B shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series B will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below) and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series B, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series B (issued with the requisite consent of the
Holders of the Series B, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise
acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B has been declared and paid (or declared and a
sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit
plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or
conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or
exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any
stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such
warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co.
Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all
 
      -3-  

dividends declared on the Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend
Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per
share on the Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend
Period) bear to each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series B, from time to time out of any funds
legally available for such payment, and the Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    4.  Liquidation
Rights .    (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all
liabilities, if any, to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or  pari passu  with the Series B in respect of distributions upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking
junior to the Series B as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such
distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full
liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series B and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the
amounts paid to the Holders of Series B and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series B and the holders of all such other stock.
In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation
available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an
 
      -4-  

amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference on the Series B and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking
equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
   5.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The Holders of Series B shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of
Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right to Elect Two Directors Upon
Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series B, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend
Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two
additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors    provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include
more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record
of at least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall
be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written
notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series B or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 16 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights
will continue until  
      -5-  

dividends on the shares of the Series B and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have
been set aside for such payment) for at least four regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least
four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series B and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the
Series B and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall
terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account
of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock
Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent
such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent
of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above
(voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the
Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting
called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series B as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the
Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ), and the Corporation s 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock (the   Series C  ), in each case,
if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion
of the shares of Series B and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.  
      -6-  

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled
to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series B . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B remain
outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as permitted
by clause (x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders
thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole;     provided, however , that for all purposes of
this Section 5(c), neither the issuance of any Series B in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (as defined below) as in effect on the date hereof nor the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will be deemed to adversely affect  
      -7-  

the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and neither will require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series B. In addition, any conversion of
the Series B pursuant hereto shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series B shall have any voting rights with respect to any binding
share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred
Stock (including the Series B for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above,
there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series B, so long as such action does not adversely affect the
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series B:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    (e)  Procedures for Voting and
Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the
obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt
from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B is listed or traded
at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled
to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
 (f)  Authorization of Certain Parity Stock . Until October 13, 2013, if the Initial Holder or an Affiliate thereof beneficially owns
shares of Series B representing at least 15% of the shares of Series B initially issued to the Initial Holder, in addition to any other vote or  
      -8-  

consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the consent of the Initial Holder shall be necessary for effecting or validating any amendment or alteration of the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking pari passu with the Series B with
respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation if such class or series of stock:  
 (i) is issued for consideration with a fair market value that is less than the liquidation preference thereof;  
 (ii) has a dividend rate that is (x) higher than the dividend rate applicable to the Series B and (y) substantially higher than the
dividend rate that would then be carried by a substantially equivalent publicly traded security then issued by a similar issuer with a long-term unsecured debt credit rating substantially equivalent to that of the Corporation; or  
 (iii) is convertible or exchangeable into Common Stock at a per share conversion or exchange price that is less than the closing price of the
Common Stock on the day prior to the date of issuance thereof or the date that a binding agreement for the purchase and sale of such shares is entered into, if different from the date of issuance;  
  provided, however , that this paragraph (f) shall not apply (and no vote or consent of the Initial Holder or any other Holder of any Series B shall
be required) in connection with any of the following: (A) any authorization, creation or issuance of any preferred stock in connection with any merger, business combination or share exchange involving an unaffiliated third party for the purpose
of replacing or substituting the outstanding series or class of preferred stock of such third party; (B) any broadly distributed underwritten offering of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or (C) any
broadly distributed placement of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933.    
 6.  Redemption . The shares of Series B shall not be redeemable.  
 7.  Rank . Any stock of any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:  
 (a) prior to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of
such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the
Series B;    (b) on a parity with shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Series B, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms
 
      -9-  

thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation
prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series B (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares
of Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and    (c) junior
to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or classes or series shall be common stock or if the Holders of the Series B shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or classes or series.  
 The Series B shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Series A, the Series C and any
Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series B:  
   Capital Stock   of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or
other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.  
   Cash   means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public
and private debts.      Close of Business   means 5:00 p.m., New York City time.  
   Closing Price   of the Common Stock or any securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, means, as of any date of
determination:    (a) the closing price on that date or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price, of
shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the New York Stock Exchange on that date; or    (b) if the Common
Stock or such other securities are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such
other securities are so traded or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price of shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such
other securities are so traded on that date; or    (c) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not traded on a U.S.
national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price on that date for the Common Stock or such other securities in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization; or  
      -10-  

(d) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not so quoted by Pink Sheets
LLC or a similar organization, the market price of the Common Stock or such other securities on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking not affiliated with the Corporation retained by the Corporation for
this purpose.    For the purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the closing price and the last reported sale price of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service; provided that in the
event that there is a discrepancy between the closing price and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing price and the last reported sale
price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.        Common Stock   means the common stock, $0.01
par value, of the Corporation.          Conversion Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as conversion agent for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.    
     Conversion Date   means each of a Mandatory Conversion Date and a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Conversion Price   at any time means for each share of Series B the price equal to $1,000 divided by the Conversion
Rate in effect at such time (initially $25.25).          Conversion Rate   means initially 39.604 shares of Common
Stock per share of Series B, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    
     Depositary   means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.    
     DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.    
     Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.    
     Ex-Dividend Date   means the first date on which the Common Stock trades, regular way, on the relevant exchange, or in
the relevant market from which the Closing Price was obtained, without the right to receive such dividend or distribution.    
      -11-  

Fair Market Value   means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a
willing seller in an arm s-length transaction as determined by the Board of Directors.          Full Mandatory
Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the later of (i) the first date after the second anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning
after such second anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price and (ii) the date Stockholder Approval shall have been received or is no longer required to
permit conversion of all shares of Series B.          Fundamental Change   means the occurrence, prior to the Full
Mandatory Conversion Date, of one of the following:      (i) a  person  or  group  within the
meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock;  
 (ii) consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer
in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case
pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive a distribution of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all
outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction; or  
 (iii) shares of the Common Stock or shares of any other stock into which the Series B is convertible are not listed for trading
on any United States national securities exchange or cease to be traded in contemplation of a delisting (other than as a result of a transaction described in clause (ii) above);  
  provided, however , that a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90%
of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or
that will be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change; and  provided, further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Fundamental
Change with respect to clauses (i) or (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation
in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.    
      -12-  

Holder   means the Person in whose name the shares of Series B are
registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, dividend disbursing agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series B for the purpose of disbursing dividends and settling conversions and for
all other purposes.          Initial Holder   means Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.    
     Issue Date   means October 13, 2008.    
     Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series B as to the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.    
     Make-Whole Acquisition   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, of one of the
following:      (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange
Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common
equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock; or    (ii)
consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and
its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive distributions of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other
property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the
transaction;     provided, however , that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by
holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or that will be so traded when issued
or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition; and  provided, further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to
have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.    
      -13-  

Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price   means the consideration paid per
share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole Acquisition. If such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share of Common Stock. If such consideration consists of any property
other than cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.    
     Mandatory Conversion Date   means a Partial Mandatory Conversion Date or a Full Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Non-Mandatory Conversion Date   means an Early Conversion Date, a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Date or a
Fundamental Change Conversion Date.          Open of Business   means 9:00 a.m., New York City time.    
     Ownership Limit   means a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 0.149 times the sum, without duplication, of
(1) the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock on such date of measurement and (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock to be converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series B in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.          Partial Mandatory
Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the later of (i) the first date after the first anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning
after such first anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price and (ii) the date Stockholder Approval shall have been received or is no longer required to
permit conversion of all shares of Series B.          Person   means a legal person, including any individual,
corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.    
     Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series B.    
     Reference Price   means the price per share of Common Stock in connection with a Fundamental Change. If the holders of
shares of Common Stock receive only cash in connection with the Fundamental Change, the Reference Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise the Reference Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on
each of the 10 Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Fundamental Change.    
      -14-  

Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as registrar for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.    
     Securities Purchase Agreement   means the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2007, between
the Corporation and the Investor listed on the signature page thereto.          Stockholder Approval   means
approval of stockholders of the Corporation necessary to approve the conversion of all of the Series B into Common Stock for purposes of Section 312.03 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual or the time at which such provisions shall for any reason
become inapplicable or not required so as to permit the conversion of all shares of Series B.          Subsidiary  
means with respect to any Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent
(50%) of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.    
     Trading Day   means a day on which the Common Stock (i) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional
securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the Close of Business and (ii) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for
the trading of the Common Stock.          Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as transfer agent for the Series B, and its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.    
     Violation   means a violation of the stockholder approval requirements of Section 312.03 of the NYSE Listed
Company Manual to the extent then applicable.    
      -15-  

9.  Early Conversion at the Option of the Holder.  Other than during a Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion Period, any Holder shall have the right to convert such Holder s shares of Series B, in whole or in part (but in no event less than one share of Series B), at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date
(  Early Conversion  ), into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate, subject to satisfaction of the conversion procedures set forth in Section 10(b);  provided  that, prior to the receipt of
Stockholder Approval, Early Conversion shall be limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock the conversion into which would not result in a Violation. The date of such Early Conversion is referred to herein as the   Early
Conversion Date .     10.  Conversion.    
 (a)  Mandatory Conversion on Mandatory Conversion Date .  
 (i) On the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, one half of the outstanding shares of Series B held by each Holder thereof will mandatorily
convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate;  provided  that to the extent such conversion would result in the number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates exceeding
the Ownership Limit (such shares of Common Stock that would exceed the Ownership Limit, the   Excess Shares  ) the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date shall be
limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates equal the Ownership Limit; and  provided further , that to the
extent that there are Excess Shares and shares of Common Stock are issued upon settlement of the equity units sold pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement after the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date and prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion
Date, outstanding shares of Series B held by the Initial Holder will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock (but not greater than the number of Excess Shares) at the then applicable Conversion Rate provided that the number of shares of
Series B of the Initial Holder so converted shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates do not exceed
the Ownership Limit. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of Series B will be treated as the record Holder(s) of such shares of
Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any
dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.    (ii) On the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, all
of the outstanding shares of Series B will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons
 
      -16-  

entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of Series B will be treated as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on
the Full Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be
outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by
virtue of holding the Series B.    (iii) In addition to the number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Section 10(a),
if applicable, the Holders on a Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to any declared and unpaid dividends on the Series B for the most recent Dividend Period ending on a Mandatory Conversion Date to the extent
such Holders were the Holders of record as of the Dividend Record Date for such dividend.    (b)  Conversion Procedures for a
Non-Mandatory Conversion Date . To effect conversion on a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, a Holder who:    (i) holds a beneficial interest
in a global certificate representing the Series B must deliver to DTC the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to DTC s conversion program and, if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment
Date to which such Holder is not entitled by virtue of Section 10(e) and, if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any; or  
 (ii) holds shares of Series B in certificated form must:  
 (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Series B certificate or a facsimile of the conversion
notice;    (B) deliver the completed conversion notice and the certificated shares of Series B to be converted to the
Conversion Agent;    (C) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;  
 (D) if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e); and    (E) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any.  
 The conversion will be effective on the date on which a Holder has satisfied all of the foregoing requirements, to the extent applicable,
which shall be the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. A Holder will not be required to pay any transfer or similar taxes or duties relating to the issuance or delivery of Common Stock if such Holder exercises its conversion rights, but such
Holder will be required to pay any transfer or similar tax or duty that  
      -17-  

may be payable relating to any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of Common Stock in a name other than the name of such Holder. A certificate representing Common Stock will be issued
and delivered only after all applicable taxes and duties, if any, payable by the Holder have been paid in full.    The person or persons
entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. No allowance or
adjustment, except as set forth in Section 11(a), shall be made in respect of dividends payable to Holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory
Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series B shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond
to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Series B.  
 In the event that a conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series B representing fewer than all the shares of Series B held by a
Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation shall execute and the Registrar shall countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B as to which conversion was not
effected.    The Corporation shall deliver the shares of Common Stock to which the Holder converting pursuant to Section 9 is entitled
on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately following the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.    (c)  Conversion Upon
Make-Whole Acquisition .    (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to
convert its shares of Series B (a   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion  ) at the then applicable Conversion Rate during the period (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period  ) beginning on the effective date of the
Make-Whole Acquisition (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock in the form of
Make-Whole Shares as set forth in this Section 10(c);  provided  that, prior to the receipt of Stockholder Approval, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any conversion in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition shall be
limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock so that such conversion would not result in a Violation. The date of such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is referred to herein as the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Date .   
      -18-  

(ii) The number of   Make-Whole Shares   shall be determined for
the Series B by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:      
   (A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in
the table above, in which case:    (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock
Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the
higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;  
 (2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no
Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B; and    (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is
less than $21.375 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B.  
 (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above (and the corresponding prices set forth in clauses
(2) and (3) above) are subject to adjustment pursuant hereto and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and
(3) above) shall equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above), respectively, applicable immediately prior to such  
      -19-  

adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price adjustments and the
denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Make-Whole Shares in the table above shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11.  
 (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Make-Whole
Acquisition (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date on which the Make-Whole Acquisition is anticipated to be effected;  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Acquisition
conversion option must be exercised;    (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of
Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and    (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in
connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition.    (iv) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(c)(iii), comply with the procedures set forth in Section 10(b).
   (v) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this
Section 10(c), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it shall remain outstanding but shall not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares.  
 (vi) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in
the Make-Whole Acquisition.    (vii) In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares
of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition  
      -20-  

Conversion, the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of
the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.  
 (viii) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition, such Holder shall not
be entitled to an adjusted conversion price pursuant to Section 10(g) to the extent such Make-Whole Acquisition also constitutes a Fundamental Change.  
 (d)  Registration of Common Stock . In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common
Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Series B should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and
make such payment, in the name of the Holder as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records of the Corporation.  
 (e)  Dividends . If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is prior to the Close of Business on the
Dividend Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period in which such Holder is electing to convert, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared dividends for that Dividend Period. If a Non-Mandatory Conversion
Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment
Date if such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Non-Mandatory Conversion Date is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record
Date and prior to the Open of Business on the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date, the Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares
of Series B an amount in cash equal to the dividend payable on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series B being converted.  
 (f)  Outstanding Shares of Series B . Shares of Series B shall cease to be outstanding on the applicable Conversion Date, subject to the
right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series B.      (g)
 Conversion Upon Fundamental Change.     (i) If the Reference Price in connection with a Fundamental Change is less than
the then applicable Conversion Price, a Holder may convert each share of Series B during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change
at an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $12.6250,  
      -21-  

subject to adjustment as described herein (the   Base Price  ),  provided  that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, prior to the receipt of Stockholder Approval,
any conversion in connection with a Fundamental Change shall be limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock so that such conversion would not result in a Violation. The date of such conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
referred to herein as the   Fundamental Change Conversion Date .     (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as
of any date the Conversion Rate of the Series B is adjusted pursuant hereto. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate
immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Base Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders shall receive a maximum of 79.2079 shares of
Common Stock per share of Series B (subject to adjustment in a manner inverse to the adjustments to the Base Price).    (iii)
On or before the 20 th  day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Fundamental Change (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of
a Fundamental Change described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the
Corporation. Such notice shall contain:    (A) the date on which the Fundamental Change is anticipated to be effected; and
   (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which the Fundamental Change
conversion option must be exercised.    (iv) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change, another written notice shall be
sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;  
 (B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;  
 (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and
   (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Fundamental Change.
 
      -22-  

(v) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(g)(iv), comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 10(b).    (vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change pursuant
to this Section 10(g), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it will remain outstanding but shall not thereafter be entitled to convert in accordance with Section 10(g).  
 (vii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted
conversion price following the Fundamental Change.    (viii) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
effected with respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion
Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a
conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected.    (ix) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in
connection with a Fundamental Change, such Holder shall not be entitled to Make-Whole Shares pursuant to Section 10(c) to the extent such Fundamental Change also constitutes a Make-Whole Acquisition.  
 (h) A Holder cannot effect both a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion and a Fundamental Change Conversion with respect to a share of Series B.
   (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Certificate of Designations, a Holder of shares of Series B shall not, for a period
of 35 calendar days after any Conversion Date, sell any shares of Common Stock or other equity securities it receives upon conversion of the shares it converted on such Conversion Date.  
   11.  Anti-Dilution Adjustments.   
      -23-  

(a) The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Corporation as follows:  
 (i) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, issues shares of Common Stock as a dividend
or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination in respect of the Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:  
   
   where       

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or combination, as
applicable;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as
applicable;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share
combination, as applicable; and  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as applicable.  
 
  The Corporation will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in
treasury by the Corporation.    (ii) Except as otherwise provided for by Section 11(a)(iv) below, if the Corporation, at any time or
from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the
Record Date of such distribution to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Record Date of such distribution, the Conversion
Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
 
      -24-  

where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

OS 0  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

X 
   
 = 
    
 the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants; and  

Y 
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants divided by the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the
Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.  
   To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the
expiration or termination of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the distribution of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of
the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.    In determining the aggregate price payable to exercise such
rights or warrants, there shall be taken into account any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  
      -25-  

(iii) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 11(a)(i) above), evidences
of its indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Capital Stock or other securities, but excluding (1) dividends or distributions as to which an adjustment under Section 11(a)(i),
Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 11(a)(iv) hereof shall apply, (2) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in Cash and (3) Spin-Offs to which the provision set forth below in this Section 11(a)(iii) shall apply (any of such
shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Common Stock or other securities, hereinafter in this Section 11(a)(iii) called the   Distributed Property  ), then,
in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and  

FMV 
   
 = 
    
 the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) of the portion of Distributed Property with respect to each outstanding share of Common Stock on the Record Date for such
distribution.  
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the
Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall
distribute to each Holder on the date the Distributed Property is distributed to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Distributed Property such Holder would have received had
such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the record date fixed for determination for stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any
distribution for purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it shall in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the
Closing Prices of the Common Stock for purposes of calculating SP 0  in the formula in this Section 11(a)(iii).  
      -26-  

With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii) where there has been a
payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock consisting of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (a
  Spin-Off  ), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Close of Business on the tenth Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
     
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the
Spin-Off;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect from and after the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off;  

FMV 
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Capital Stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and
including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; and  

MP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.  
   Such adjustment shall occur on the 10 th  Trading Day
immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off (it being agreed that notwithstanding Section 10(a), the Holder of the Series B shall not be entitled to convert the Series B pursuant to an Early Conversion prior to such
10 th  Trading Day).    For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii),
Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 11(a)(iii) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common
Stock to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock
or rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 11(a)(iii) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by
(2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 11(a)(i) and 11(a)(ii)
hereof with respect to such dividend or distribution  
      -27-  

shall then be made), except (A) the Close of Business on the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for  the Close of Business on the Record Date, 
 the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date,   after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share
split or share combination  and  the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such
dividend or distribution shall not be deemed  outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) hereof.  
 (iv) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes rights or warrants to all
holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for, purchase or convert into shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a
specified event or events (  Trigger Event  ): (x) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (y) are not exercisable; and (z) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be
deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 11(a)(iii) above, (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 11(a)(iii) above will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event and a distribution
or deemed distribution under the terms of such rights or warrants at which time an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made in the same manner as provided for under Section 11(a)(iii) above. If any such
rights or warrants are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event
shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition,
in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate under this Section 11(a)(iv) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon
such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common
Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that
shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued.  
      -28-  

(v) (1) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, makes a regular, quarterly Cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period that exceeds $0.27 (the   Initial Dividend Threshold  ), the Conversion Rate
shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C 
   
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock in excess of the Initial Dividend Threshold.  
     The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion
Rate;  provided  that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (1) or (2) of this Section 11(a)(v).    
 (2) If the Corporation pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or
substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;   
      -29-  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C 
   
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock  
   (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the portion of the Cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common
Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall distribute to each Holder on the date the Cash dividend or distribution is paid
to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the Record
Date for such dividend or distribution. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been
declared.    (4) For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this Section 11(a)(v), in the event of any reclassification of the Common
Stock, as a result of which the Series B becomes convertible into more than one class of Common Stock, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required pursuant to this Section 11(a)(v), references in this Section to one share of Common
Stock or Closing Price of one share of Common Stock shall be deemed to refer to a unit or to the price of a unit consisting of the number of shares of each class of Common Stock into which the Series B is then convertible equal to the numbers of
shares of such class issued in respect of one share of Common Stock in such reclassification. The above provisions of this paragraph shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications.  
 (vi) If the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment of Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange
offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where such Cash and the value of any such other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day next succeeding the last date (the  expiration date ) on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following
formula:      
 
      -30-  

where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

AC 
   
 = 
    
 the aggregate value of all Cash and any other consideration (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) paid or payable for shares purchased in such tender or exchange offer;  

OS 0  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires;  

OS 1  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the date such tender or exchange offer expires (after giving effect to such tender offer or exchange offer); and  

SP 1  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day next succeeding the expiration date.  
   If the Corporation or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender
or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that had been effected. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11(a)(vi) with respect to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this
Section 11(a)(vi).    (vii) For purposes of this Section 11(a) the term  Record Date  shall mean, with respect to any
dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into
any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or
otherwise).  
      -31-  

(viii) If application of the formulas provided in Sections 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii), 11(a)(iii),
11(a)(iv), 11(a)(v) or 11(a)(vi) above would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment (other than a readjustment as described in such sections) to the Conversion Rate shall be made except in the case of a share split or combination
of the Common Stock.    (ix) If one or more events occur requiring an adjustment be made to the Conversion Rate for a particular period,
adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors to reflect the combined impact of such Conversion Rate adjustments, as set out in this Section 11(a), during such period.  
 (x) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing clauses in this Section 11, no adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless the
adjustment would result in a change in the Conversion Rate of at least 1.00%;  provided, however , that any adjustment which by reason of this Section 11(a)(x) is not required to be made shall be carried forward and the Corporation shall
make such adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1.00%, within one year of the first such adjustment carried forward or in connection with any conversion of Series B. All calculations under this Section 11 shall
be made to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.  
 No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made (i) for issuances of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan for
reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation s securities or the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan, (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or
rights to purchase shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of, or assumed by, the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series B was first issued, (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock, (v) for repurchases of shares of Common
Stock in open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions, or (vi) for accumulated and unpaid dividends, other than as expressly contemplated by Section 11(a)(i).  
 No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made pursuant to Section 11(a)(i) through (ix) above for a transaction if Holders are
permitted to participate in the transaction without conversion, concurrently with the holders of Common Stock, on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in good faith to be fair and appropriate in light of
the basis and notice to holders of Common Stock participating in the transaction.    Whenever a provision of this Certificate of
Designations requires the calculation of an average of the Closing Price over a span of multiple days, the Corporation will make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event
requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which the average is to be
calculated.  
      -32-  

(xi) Upon conversion of the Series B, the Holders shall receive, in addition to any shares of
Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, any associated rights issued under any shareholder rights agreement of the Corporation that provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series B at any time prior to the
distribution of separate certificates representing such rights will be entitled to receive such rights unless, prior to conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, expired, terminated or been redeemed or exchanged in accordance with
such rights plan, and no adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11(a)(iv) hereof. If, prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of
separation as if the Corporation distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants as described in Section 11(a)(iv) hereof, subject to readjustment in the
event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.    (xii) Subject to applicable stock exchange rules and listing
standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 Business Days if the Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the best interests in the Corporation;
 provided  the Corporation has given to the Conversion Agent and DTC at least 15 days  prior notice of any such increase in the Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect. Subject to applicable stock exchange rules
and listing standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate, in addition to the events requiring an increase in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11 hereof, as it in its discretion shall determine to be
advisable in order to avoid or diminish any tax to shareholders in connection with any stock dividends, subdivisions of shares, distributions of rights to purchase stock or securities or distributions of securities convertible into or exchangeable
for stock hereafter made by the Corporation to its shareholders or other events.    (xiii) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as
herein provided, the Corporation will issue a notice to the Conversion Agent and DTC containing the relevant information and make this information available on the Corporation s website. In addition, the Corporation shall provide upon the
request of a Holder of Series B, to the extent not posted on the Corporation website, a brief statement setting forth in reasonable detail how the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate.  
 (xiv) For purposes of this Section 11, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the
treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.  
 (xv) If the record date for a dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date and the payment date for a
dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs after a Mandatory Conversion Date, and such dividend or distribution would have resulted in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate if such dividend or distribution does not result in an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate but were paid prior to such Mandatory Conversion Date, then without duplication the Corporation shall deem the Holders to be holders  
      -33-  

of record of Common Stock for purposes of that dividend or distribution. In that case, the Holders will receive the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the applicable Mandatory
Conversion Date together with the dividend or distribution on such shares of Common Stock so converted.      12.  Reorganization
Events.     (a) In the event of:  
 (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person or of another Person with or into the Corporation;  
 (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety;
   (iii) any statutory share exchange of the Corporation with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); or
   (iv) any liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Corporation;  
 in each case in which holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock (any such event
specified in this Section 12(a), a   Reorganization Event  ), each share of Series B outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the kind of cash,
securities and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of one share of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such cash, securities and other property,
the   Exchange Property  ).    (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect
the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the  Exchange Property  that Holders of the Series B will be entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by
the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). The number of units of Exchange Property for each share of Series B converted following the effective date of such Reorganization
Event shall be determined based on the Conversion Rate then in effect on the applicable Conversion Date, determined as if the references to a  share of Common Stock  in this Certificate of Designations were to  unit of Exchange
Property.     (c) After a Reorganization Event, for purposes of determining whether a Mandatory Conversion Date has occurred, the term
 Closing Price  shall be deemed to refer to the closing sale price, last quoted bid price or mid-point of the last bid and ask prices, as the case may be, of any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange
Property. For purposes of this Section 12, references to Common Stock in the definition of  Trading Day  shall be replaced by references to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property.  
      -34-  

(d) The above provisions of this Section 12 shall similarly apply to successive
Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 11 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.  
 (e) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the
Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12 or the
validity of any Reorganization Event.    13.  Fractional Shares.    
 (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series B.  
 (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a)
or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 9, Section 10(c) or Section 10(g), the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of:  
 (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a), a Make Whole Acquisition conversion pursuant to Section 10(c) or
a Conversion Upon Fundamental Change pursuant to Section 10(g), the average of the Closing Prices over the five consecutive Trading Day period preceding the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Conversion Date; or  
 (ii) in the case of an Early Conversion pursuant to Section 9, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the second Trading Day
immediately preceding the Early Conversion Date.    (c) If more than one share of the Series B is surrendered for conversion at one time by
or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so surrendered.  
   14.  Reservation of Common Stock.   
 (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the
treasury by the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to
time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series B
shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.  
      -35-  

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion
of shares of Series B, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges,
security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (c) All
shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges,
security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall
be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval
of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.    (e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any
time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and
keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B;  provided, however , that if the rules of such exchange or automated
quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series B into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series B in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.    15.  Record
Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither
the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    16.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    17.  Preemptive or Subscription Rights.  Except as expressly provided
in any agreement between a Holder and the Corporation, no share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless
of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      -36-  

18.  Repurchase.  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase
and sell shares of Series B from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;  provided, however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds
for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 19.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law.  
 [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -37-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this certificate is
the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 13th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By:  
   
 /s/ Walid A. Chammah  

Name:  
   
 Walid A. Chammah  

Title: 
   
 Co-President  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES C
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the
Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on October 12, 2008, the creation of 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ), of the Corporation was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series C, in addition to
those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation . The
distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series C shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C, except as
to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  
 2.  Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of Series C shall be 1,160,791. Shares of Series C that are purchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series C
by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.    3.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate.  Holders of shares of Series C shall be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 10%. Declared dividends on the Series C
shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than the initial Dividend Period), and shall be
payable quarterly, in arrears, on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment Date  ). If any date on which dividends would
otherwise be payable shall not be a Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends  

need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Dividend Payment Date,
and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday or
Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.  
 Dividends on the Series C shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series C shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee
thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series C payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend
Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series C are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series C on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series C as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date
shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend Period   means the period
from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of the
Series C and shall end on but exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series C shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series C will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below) and any class or series
of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series C, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series C (issued with the requisite consent
of the Holders of the Series C, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series C remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding  
      -2-  

shares of Series C has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases,
redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or
(2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or
series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in
connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of
stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In
addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of
business.    When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series C and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series C and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series C and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series C, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series C shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    4.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation.  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series C shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities, if any,
to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital  
      -3-  

stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or  pari passu  with the Series C in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and
before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series C as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends
that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series C will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment.  If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series C and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series C as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the Holders of
Series C and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series C and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the
  Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such
distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series C and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative
dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series C will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim
to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference on the Series C
and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or
proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation.  For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series C receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
   5.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General.  The Holders of Series C shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of
Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
      -4-  

(b)  Right to Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on
any shares of the Series C, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders
of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the
  Preferred Stock Directors    provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which
the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that
event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or of any other
series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting
of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series C
or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the
Series C and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at least four regular dividend periods following
the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared
and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series C and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing
voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by
two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for
that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of
the outstanding shares of the Series C together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue,
any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote
of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series C and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights  
      -5-  

described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New
York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred
Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date
fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter.    The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
ranking equally with the Series C as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred
Stock includes the Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ) and the Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (the   Series B  ), in
each case, if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or
other portion of the shares of Series C and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series C are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of
Series C . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or  
      -6-  

reclassification involving the Series C, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series C remain outstanding or are
converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as permitted by clause
(x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole;     provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this
Section 5(c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are
cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and shall not require the
affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series C. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series C shall have any voting rights with respect to any binding share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation
which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange,
reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series C for this purpose),
then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred
Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval
of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series C, so long as such action does not adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series C:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series C that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.  
      -7-  

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of
Series C shall be required pursuant to this Section 5 or otherwise if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series C
shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6.  
 (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series C
(including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such
consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate
of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series C is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion
of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series C are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of
the shares voted or covered by the consent.    6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Series C may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October 15, 2011. On or after
October 15, 2011, subject to obtaining any then required regulatory approval, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $1,100 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below), for the purposes of the redemption price only, with an amount equal to dividends accumulated but unpaid for
the then current Dividend Period at the rate set forth in Section 3 to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared for that Dividend Period). The redemption price for any shares of
Series C shall be payable on the redemption date to the Holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any accrued and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period
payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the Holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the Holder of record
of the redeemed shares of Series C on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series C will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions.
Holders of Series C will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series C.  
      -8-  

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C shall be
given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the Holders of record of the shares of Series C to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more
than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail,
or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any Holder of shares of Series C designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if depositary shares representing interests in the Series C are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the Holders of Series C at such time and in any manner
permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a Holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series C to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such Holder are to be redeemed, the number of
such shares to be redeemed from such Holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, the shares to be
redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series C shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares of Series C represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge
to the holder thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the Holders of any shares of Series C so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares of Series C so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate,
except only the right of the Holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the Holders of the shares of Series C so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
 (f)  Regulatory . Redemption of the Series C by the Corporation is subject to its receipt of any required prior approvals from the
Federal Reserve. The Corporation hereby confirms that it is the Corporation s intention that, at the time of any redemption of the Series C, the Corporation will repay the liquidation preference of any shares of Series C redeemed in
 
      -9-  

accordance with this Section 6 only out of the net proceeds received by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries from the issuance or sale of securities which will qualify as non-restricted core
capital (as such term is defined in 12 C.F.R. 225 (Appendix A)) at the time of such issuance or sale.    7.  Rank.  Any stock of
any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:    (a) prior to shares of the Series C, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the Series C;    (b) on a parity
with shares of the Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of
the Series C, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to
their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series C (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to
refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and  
 (c) junior to shares of the Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or
classes or series shall be common stock or if the Holders of the Series C shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the
holders of stock of such class or classes or series.    The Series C shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, on a parity with the Series A, the Series B and any Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional
Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Series C:      Common Stock   means the common stock, $0.01 par value, of the
Corporation.      Holder   means the Person in whose name the shares of Series C are registered, which may be treated by the
Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar and dividend disbursing agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series C for the purpose of disbursing dividends and for all other purposes.  
      -10-  

Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation
that ranks junior to Series C as to the payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series C in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.      Person   means a legal
person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.  
   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series C.  
   Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as registrar for the Series C, and its
successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.      Subsidiary   means with respect to any
Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent (50%) of the directors or
similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.  
   Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as transfer agent for the Series C, and
its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.    9.  Record Holders.  To the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series C may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series C as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor
such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    10.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of
Series C shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation
or Bylaws or by applicable law.    11.  Preemptive or Subscription Rights . Except as expressly provided in any agreement between a
Holder and the Corporation, no share of Series C shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or
such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.    12.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed
herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series C from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and  
      -11-  

upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 13.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series C shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law. Holders of Series C shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other security.    [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -12-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this certificate is
the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 13th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By:  
   
   /s/ Walid A. Chammah   

Name: Walid A. Chammah   

Title: Co-President   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS   
  OF      FIXED RATE
CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D      OF   
  MORGAN STANLEY     Morgan
Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby
certify:    The board of directors of the Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ) or an applicable committee of the Board of
Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution on October 26, 2008 creating a series of 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
designated as   Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D  .     RESOLVED , that pursuant to the
provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares
of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:    
 Part 1.  Designation and Number of Shares . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the
Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D  (the   Designated Preferred Stock  ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall
be 10,000,000.    Part 2.  Standard Provisions . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.  
 Part. 3.  Definitions . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A
hereto) as defined below:    (a)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year.
   (c)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which
expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
      1  

(d)   Liquidation Amount   means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
   (e)   Minimum Amount   means $2,500,000,000.  
 (f)   Parity Stock   means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of
which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to
whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation s (i) Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock; (ii) Series B Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock; and (iii) Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.    (g)
  Signing Date   means October 26, 2008.    Part. 4.  Certain Voting Matters . Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record
date, on the date for such vote or consent. For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock under Section 7 of the Standard Provisions forming part of this Certificate of Designations, each holder will
be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which such holder s shares are entitled.  
       [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]        
      2  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by
Colm Kelleher, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, this 28th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By:  
   
 /s/ Colm Kelleher   

Name:  
   
 Colm Kelleher   

Title:  
   
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

3  

ANNEX A   
   STANDARD PROVISIONS    
 Section 1.  General Matters . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of
Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank
equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.  
 Section 2.  Standard Definitions . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:  
 (a)   Applicable Dividend Rate   means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day
of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the
Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.    (b)   Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means the  appropriate Federal
banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.  
 (c)   Business Combination   means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the
approval of the Corporation s stockholders.    (d)   Business Day   means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on
which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.  
 (e)   Bylaws   means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.  
 (f)   Certificate of Designations   means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated
Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.    (g)   Charter  
means the Corporation s certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.    (h)
  Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).    (i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning
set forth in Section 3(a).    (j)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
      A-1  

(k)   Original Issue Date   means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred
Stock are first issued.    (l)   Preferred Director   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (m)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred
Stock.    (n)   Qualified Equity Offering   means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at
the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation s Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to
financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).    (o)   Share Dilution Amount   has
the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).    (p)   Standard Provisions   mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the
Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.    (q)   Successor Preferred Stock   has the meaning
set forth in Section 5(a).    (r)   Voting Parity Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of
Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.    Section 3.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and
when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per
annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred
Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (     i.e.     , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless
and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such
Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to
the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but  
      A-2  

excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period  , provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but
excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.    Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period
shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.    Dividends that
are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th
calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.  
 Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other
than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be
declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common
Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods,
including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid
in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to
(i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share
Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,      provided      that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the
Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the
ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer
subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders   
      A-3  

rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders  rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in
Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other
Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the
Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.   Share Dilution Amount   means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation s consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue
Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.  
   When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on
the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend
Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having
dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends
declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity
Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued
but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written
notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.      Subject to the foregoing, and not
otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock
and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
 Section 4.  Liquidation Rights .  
      A-4  

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
(whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of
Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any
accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the   Liquidation Preference  ).
   (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated
Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the
corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)
 Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders
of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.    Section 5.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend
Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as
provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in
Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.  
      A-5  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the
third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid
dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;      provided   
  that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as defined in the relevant certificate of designations
for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the   Successor Preferred Stock  ) in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program
Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock)
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
   The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares
against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid
to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3
above.    (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other
similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.  
 (c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of  
      A-6  

redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state:
(1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the
redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either      pro rata      or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all
the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.  
 (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the
notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the      pro rata      benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing
business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any
certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no
longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or
trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall
look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    (f)  Status of Redeemed Shares . Shares of
Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (     provided      that any such cancelled shares of
Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).  
 Section 6.  Conversion . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into
any other securities.    Section 7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from
time to time required by law.  
      A-7  

(b)  Preferred Stock Directors . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the
shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the
holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the
          Preferred Directors           and each a           Preferred Director          ) to fill such newly created directorships at the
Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past
Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full
at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;
     provided      that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any
securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall
terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may
be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting
rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold
office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.    (c)  Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . So long
as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated
Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of
the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
      A-8  

(ii)  Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or
repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal
by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or  
 (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or
reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in
the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and
(y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less
favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any
increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized
or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with
and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be
deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.  
 (d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant
to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called
for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.  
 (e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated
Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a
meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to  
      A-9  

time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on
which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.    Section 8.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted
by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the
Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    Section 9.  Notices . All notices or
communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be
given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.    Section 10.  No Preemptive
Rights . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities,
or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.    Section 11.  Replacement Certificates . The
Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder s expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense
upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.  
 Section 12.  Other Rights . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.  
      A-10  

CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF   
  THE FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D,   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151(g)  
 of the General Corporation Law    of
the State of Delaware    Morgan Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Company ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:  
 1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company, as theretofore amended, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 10,000,000 (ten million) shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
Series D, par value $0.01 per share (the  Preferred Stock ), and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on
October 28, 2008, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  
 2. That the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted resolutions approving the repurchase of said Preferred Stock, including resolutions
authorizing each officer of the Company to execute and deliver such further documentation, and to take all such actions as any officer shall deem necessary or desirable, in furtherance of the repurchase of such Preferred Stock, which includes the
execution and filing of this Certificate, and said Preferred Stock has been repurchased by the Company.    3. That no shares of said
Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to said Certificate of Designation.    4. That, accordingly,
all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to the Preferred Stock be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company.  
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 23 rd  day of June, 2009.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  

Name: Martin M. Cohen  

Office: Assistant Secretary and Counsel  

CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF  
 THE 10% SERIES B NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE  
 PREFERRED STOCK ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
 Pursuant to Section 151(g)  
 of the General Corporation Law    of
the State of Delaware    Morgan Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
  Company  ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:  
 1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company, as theretofore amended, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 7,839,209 (seven million eight hundred thirty-nine thousand two hundred nine) shares of
Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the   Preferred Stock  ), and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on October 10, 2008, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock, and, on October 13, 2008, amended
such Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock, in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  
 2. That the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted resolutions approving the conversion of said Preferred Stock into common stock of
the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the   Common Stock  ), including resolutions authorizing each officer of the Company to execute and deliver such further documentation, and to take all such actions as any officer shall deem
necessary or desirable, in furtherance of the conversion of such Preferred Stock, which includes the execution and filing of this Certificate, and said Preferred Stock has been converted into Common Stock.  
 3. That no shares of said Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to said Certificate of Designation.
   4. That, accordingly, all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to the Preferred Stock be, and hereby are,
eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company.         [Remainder of Page Intentionally
Blank]       

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed by its duly authorized
officer this 20th day of July, 2011.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  
 
   Name: Martin M. Cohen  
 
   Title: Corporate Secretary  
 
   [Signature Page to Series B Certificate of Elimination]   

STATE OF DELAWARE   
  CERTIFICATE OF MERGER OF   
  DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS     Pursuant to Title
8, Section 251(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the undersigned corporation executed the following Certificate of Merger:     FIRST :
The name of the surviving corporation is  Morgan
Stanley                                        
         , and the name of the corporation being merged into this surviving corporation is  MSDW Credit Products
Inc.                                         
          .     SECOND : The Agreement of Merger has been approved, adopted, certified, executed and
acknowledged by each of the constituent corporations.     THIRD : The name of the surviving corporation is  Morgan
Stanley                                        
  a Delaware Corporation.     FOURTH : The Certificate of Incorporation of the surviving corporation shall be its Certificate of Incorporation.  
  FIFTH : The merger is to become effective on  December 29,
2011                         .  
  SIXTH : The Agreement of Merger is on file at  c/o Morgan Stanley, 1585 Broadway, New York, New
York                     , the place of business of the surviving corporation.  
  SEVENTH:  A copy of the Agreement of Merger will be furnished by the surviving corporation on request, without cost, to any stockholder of the
constituent corporations.     IN WITNESS WHEREOF , said surviving Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by an authorized officer, the
 29 th   day of  December , A.D.,  2011 .       

By: 
   
             /s/ Aaron Guth  

Authorized Officer   

Name: 
   
       Aaron Guth  

Print or Type   

Title: 
   
       Assistant Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on September 24, 2013, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), of the Corporation
was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series E, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of
the Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock
is  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E.  Each share of Series E shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series E, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue,
to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series E shall be 34,500. Shares of Series E that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series E by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series E:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series E is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series E, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series E
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means September 30, 2013.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series E in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ) and the Corporation s previously issued 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ).  
      2  

(v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred
stock of the Corporation, including the Series E.    (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section
6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
ranking equally with the Series E as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A and the Series C. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series E and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by
reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series E will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
7.125% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, October 15, 2023 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 4.32% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including October 15, 2023 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series E after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series E on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series E as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
 A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next
Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series E issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series E and will end on
and exclude the January 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series E issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other
date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series E for any Dividend Period
during the Fixed Rate  
      3  

Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series E for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series E issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the October 15, 2023 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as
a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation
Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be
final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any
successor service.    Holders of Series E shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or
other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series E as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
      4  

Dividends on shares of the Series E will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the
Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series E payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have
no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series E are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series E will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series E, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series E (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series E, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series E, with
respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series E remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series E has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
      5  

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof
set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series E and any
shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series E and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a
dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series
E and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to
each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series E, from time to time out of any funds legally
available for such payment, and the Series E shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)
 Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends.  Dividends on the Series E will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with
applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the
Corporation.    5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series E shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series E in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series E as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series E will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series E and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series E as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series E and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series E and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the  
      6  

Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series E and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not
declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series E will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the
Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series E and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series E receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series E (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after October 15, 2023 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series E shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after September 24, 2013, (ii) any proposed change in
those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after September 24, 2013, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying
those laws or regulations that is announced after September 24, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series E then
outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy  
      7  

guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series E is outstanding.   Appropriate federal
banking agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series E will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series E will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series E.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series E shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series E designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series E. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series E are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series E at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series E
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series E at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series E shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series E so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
      8  

7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series E shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series E, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series E or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series E and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series E and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series E and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series E and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the
filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have
a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock  
      9  

Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such
request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of
Series E are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series
E . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series E, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the
shares of Series E remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or
resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
E, Series A or Series C, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not
require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series E.    If any amendment, alteration,
repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series E for this purpose), then only such
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally
affected by the proposed  
      10  

amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of
each series that will have a diminished status.    (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders
of the Series E, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of
the Series E:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of
Designation that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions
arising with respect to the Series E that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series E shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or
consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series E shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and
procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series E (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written
consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series E is listed or traded at the time.
Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series E are entitled to vote shall
be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.
 Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series E may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series E as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes,
and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series E shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series E shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or
granted.  
      11  

11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series E shall not have any voting powers, preferences or
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 27 th  day of September, 2013.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By    
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES F  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on December 5, 2013, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series F, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F.  Each share of Series F shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series F shall be 39,100. Shares of Series F that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series F by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series F:  
 (a)       Board of Directors       means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series F is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series F, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series F
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means December 10, 2013.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series F in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share ( Series A ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%  
      2  

Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ) and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ).    (v)
  Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series F.  
 (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).  
 (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series F as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable.
Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C and the Series E. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by
reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series F will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.875% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, January 15, 2024 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.94% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including January 15, 2024 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series F after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series F on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series F as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
 A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next
Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series F issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series F and will end on
and exclude the January 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series F issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other
date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall  
      3  

determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series F for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series F for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series F issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the
January 15, 2024 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend
Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to
the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation
Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be
final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any
successor service.  
      4  

Holders of Series F shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in
cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series F as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series F will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series F payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series F are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series F will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series F, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series F (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series F, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series
F, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series F remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series F has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
      5  

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof
set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series F and any
shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series F and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a
dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series
F and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to
each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series F, from time to time out of any funds legally
available for such payment, and the Series F shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)
 Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends . Dividends on the Series F will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with
applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the
Corporation.    5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series F shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series F in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series F as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series F will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series F and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series F as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series F and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series F and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the  
      6  

Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series F and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not
declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series F will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the
Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series F and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series F receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series F (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after January 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series F shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after December 5, 2013, (ii) any proposed change in those
laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after December 5, 2013, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those
laws or regulations that is announced after December 5, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series F then outstanding
as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or
 
      7  

regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series F is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking
agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series F will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series F will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series F.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series F. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series F are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series F at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series F
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series F at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series F shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series F so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
      8  

7.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The holders of Series F shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series F, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series F or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series F and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series F and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series F and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series F and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the
filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have
a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock  
      9  

Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such
request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of
Series F are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series
F . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series F, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the
shares of Series F remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or
resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
F, Series A, Series C or Series E, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends (whether
such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will
not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series F.    If any amendment,
alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series F for this purpose), then
only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred  
      10  

Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described
above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series F, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series F:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series F that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series F shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series F shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series F (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series F is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series F are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series F may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series F as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series F
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws
or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series F shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any
securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      11  

11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series F shall not have any voting powers, preferences or
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 9 th  day of December, 2013.       

MORGAN STANLEY    
 
    By   
   
   /s/ Kevin Sheehan   

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to the Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 6.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on April 22, 2014, the creation of 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), of the Corporation was authorized and the
designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series G, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are
fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  6.625%
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G.  Each share of Series G shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series G, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may
differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of
Series G shall be 20,000. Shares of Series G that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of
Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series G by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series G:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series G, as it may be
amended or supplemented from time to time.  

(e)   Certification of Incorporation   shall mean the amended and
restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (f)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (g)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15
of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (h)   Dividend Period   has the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).    (i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (k)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series G
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (l)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (m)   Nonpayment   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (n)   Original Issue Date   means April 29, 2014.  
 (o)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series G in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s
previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ), and the Corporation s Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ).    (p)   Preferred Stock   means any
and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series G.    (q)   Preferred Stock
Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (r)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event  
has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).    (s)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series
of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series G as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting
rights have  
      2  

been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F and the Series H. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the
shares of Series G and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series G will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on July 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.625%. In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series G after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized
committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.    Dividends that are payable on Series G on any Dividend
Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series G as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before
such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a
  Dividend Record Date  ).    A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series G issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series G and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series G issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the
Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series G for any Dividend Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series G issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the
Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement.  
 Holders of Series G shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series G as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series G will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series G payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series G are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
      3  

(b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series G will rank (i) senior to the
Common Stock and any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series G, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series G
(issued with the requisite consent of the holders of the Series G, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series H and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may
issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series G, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series G remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series G has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series G and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series G and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series G and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
      4  

Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other
property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series G, from time
to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series G shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
 (c)  Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends .   Dividends on the Series G will not be declared, paid or set aside
for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and
if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights.   
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series G shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series G in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series G as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series G will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series G and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series G as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series G and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series G and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for
such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series G and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative
dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series G will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim
to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
      5  

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series G and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series G receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series G (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series G shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, (ii) any proposed change in those
laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those
laws or regulations that is announced after April 22, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series G then outstanding as
 Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal
banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series G is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as
that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.    (b)  No
Sinking Fund . The Series G will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series G will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series G.  
      6  

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series G
shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not
more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series G designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series G.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series G are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of
Series G at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series G to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such
holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series G shall be redeemed
from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.  
 (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date
specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series G so called for
redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to
accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of
the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the
holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.
 Voting Rights .    (a)  General . The holders of Series G shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below and as determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
 (b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series G, or any
other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together
as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred 
 
      7  

Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock
Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series G or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice,
signed by the requisite holders of Series G or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will
continue until dividends on the shares of the Series G and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at
least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four
consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series G and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of
the Series G and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall
terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may
take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the
outstanding shares of the Series G together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any
vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of
the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series G and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not
cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent
directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series G or of any other series of
Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of
stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other
Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series G are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the
shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding  
      8  

and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be
necessary for effecting or validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series G with respect
to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
 (ii)  Amendment of Series G . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole; or  
 (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or
reclassification involving the Series G, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect
to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such
preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole;     provided ,  however , that for all purposes of
this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series G, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, or Series H or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or
series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series G.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c)
would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series G for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on
the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
      9  

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the
Series G, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series G, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the
Series G:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of
Designation that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions
arising with respect to the Series G that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series G shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or
consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series G shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and
procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series G (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written
consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series G is listed or traded at the time.
Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series G are entitled to vote shall
be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.
 Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series G may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series G as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes,
and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series G shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series G shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or
granted.    11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series G shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      10  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 28 th  day of April, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By  
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: 
   
 Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to Series G Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on April 22, 2014, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series H, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H.  Each share of Series H shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series H, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series H shall be 52,000. Shares of Series H that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series H by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series H:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series H is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series H, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on July 15, 2014 and ending on July 15, 2019 and thereafter January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to
adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
   (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series H
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means April 29, 2014.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series H in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%
Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
and the Corporation s 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ).  
 (v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series H.
   (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).  
 (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series H as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable.
Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F and the Series G. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series H and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any
matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series H will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, semi-annually in arrears on the 15 th  day of January and July of each year, commencing on July 15, 2014 and ending on July 15, 2019 and
thereafter quarterly in arrears on the 15 th  day of January, April, July and October of each year. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate
per annum equal to 5.45% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, July 15, 2019 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar
LIBOR on the related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.61% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including July 15, 2019 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of
Series H after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series H on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series H as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
      3  

A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series H issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series H and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series H issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the
Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series H for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series H for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series H issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the July 15, 2019 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a
result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.  
      4  

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its
calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series H shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series H as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series H will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series H payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series H are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series H will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series H, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series H (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series H, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be
senior or junior to the Series H, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series H remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series H has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or    
      5  

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series H and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series H and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series H and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series H, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series H shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends . Dividends on the Series H will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations,
including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series H shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series H in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series H as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series H will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
      6  

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a)
above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series H and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series H as
to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series H and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series H and the holders
of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the
assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series H and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount
equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series H will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this
Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series H and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation
ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series H receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series H (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series H shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, (ii) any
 
      7  

proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or
administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after April 22, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the
full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series H then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable,
the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series H is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means
the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series H will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series H will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series H.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series H shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series H designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series H. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series H are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series H at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series H
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series H at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series H shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series H so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest.  
      8  

Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called
for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series H shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series H, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series H or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series H or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series H and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series H and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series H and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series H together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
 
      9  

remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series H and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting
together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s
securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of
the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series H or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series H are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series H and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series H with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series H . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series H, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series H, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series H remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series H, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
H, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, or Series G, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series H with respect to the payment of
dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series H.  
      10  

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series H for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by
and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share
exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series H, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series H, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series H:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series H that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series H shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series H shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series H (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series H is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series H and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series H are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series H may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series H as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series H
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws
or by applicable law.  
      11  

10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series H shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series H shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 28 th  day of April, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY    

By   
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to Series H Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on September 11, 2014, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series I  ), of the Corporation
was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series I, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of
the Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock
is  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I.  Each share of Series I shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series I, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue,
to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series I shall be 46,000. Shares of Series I that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series I by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series I:  
 (a)   Board  of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time  

and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series I is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and
serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.    (e)
  Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series I, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.  
 (f)   Certification of Incorporation   shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the
Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.    (g)
  Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.    (h)
  Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.  
 (i)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15
of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).    (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series I
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means September 18, 2014.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series I in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%
Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
the Corporation s previously issued 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series H, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ).    (v)   Preferred
Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series I.    (w)
  Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital
Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means
any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series I as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G and the Series H. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the
shares of Series I and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series I will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2015. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.375% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, October 15, 2024 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.708% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including October 15, 2024 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series I after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series I on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series I as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
      3  

A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series I issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series I and will end on and exclude the January 15, 2015 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series I issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include
the Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series I for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series I for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series I issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the October 15, 2024 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as
a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth  
      4  

above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be
based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation
of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series I shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series I as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series I will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series I payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series I are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series I will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series I, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series I (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series I, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly
stated to be senior or junior to the Series I, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series I remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series I has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    
      5  

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series I and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series I and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series I and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series I, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series I shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends  .  Dividends on the Series I will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and
regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series I shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series I in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series I as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the  
      6  

date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series I will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial
Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series I and all holders of
any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series I as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate
Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series I and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to
such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series I
and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series I will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series I and any other
shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and
Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series I receive
cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation.    6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series I (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after October 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series I shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
      7  

A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith
determination by the Corporation that, as a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after
September 11, 2014, (ii) any proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after September 11, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative
action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after September 11, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full
liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series I then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the
capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series I is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the
 appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series I will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series I will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series I.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series I designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series I are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series I at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series I
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series I at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series I shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its  
      8  

other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series I so called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding
that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall
no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest.
Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for
payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series I shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series I, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series I or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series I or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series I and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series I and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series I and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at  
      9  

least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date
for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series I together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding
(voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a
Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series I and all Voting Preferred Stock
when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange
(or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be
taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series I or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next
annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series I are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series I and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series I with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series I . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series I, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series I, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series I remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series I, taken as a whole;  
      10  

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in
the amount of the authorized or issued Series I, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, Series G, or Series H, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking
equally with the Series I with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series I.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series I for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the
matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification,
merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series I, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series I, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series I:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series I that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series I shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series I shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series I (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series I is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series I and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series I are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
      11  

8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and
the transfer agent for the Series I may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series I as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series I shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and
delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.  
 10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series I shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation,
or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series I shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 17 th  day of September, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By  
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: 
   
 Kevin Sheehan  

Title: 
   
 Assistant Treasurer  
 
   Signature Page to Certificate of Designation   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on March 12, 2015, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series J  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series J, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J.  Each share of Series J shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series J, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.    2.  Number of Shares . The authorized number of
shares of Series J shall be 60,000. Shares of Series J that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares
of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series J by any subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series J:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series J is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series J, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on July 15, 2015 and ending on July 15, 2020 and thereafter January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year, subject to
adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a).    (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series J
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means March 19, 2015.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series J in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A   ) , the Corporation s previously issued
10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
the Corporation s previously issued 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series H, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ) and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, liquidation preference $25,000 per share
(  Series I  ).    (v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the
Corporation, including the Series J.    (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in
Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in
Section 6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation ranking equally with the Series J as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H and the Series I. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J and any other Voting
Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends.   
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series J will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, semi-annually in arrears on the 15 th  day of January and July of each year, commencing on July 15, 2015 and ending on July 15, 2020 and
thereafter quarterly in arrears on the 15 th  day of January, April, July and October of each year. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate
per annum equal to 5.55% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, July 15, 2020 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar
LIBOR on the related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.81% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including July 15, 2020 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of
Series J after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series J on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series J as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before  
      3  

such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior
to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).    A   Dividend Period   is
the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series J issued on the Original Issue Date will
commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series J and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2015 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series J issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for
such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next
Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series J for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series J for any Dividend
Period during the Floating Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series J issued on the Original Issue Date
will be calculated from the Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the July 15, 2020 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business
Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such
day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.
   For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by
the Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits
in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend
Determination Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of
each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three
months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single
transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR
will be determined for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the
Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single
transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth  
      4  

above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be
based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation
of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series J shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series J as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series J will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series J payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series J are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series J will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series J, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series J (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series J, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H, the Series I and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is
not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series J, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series J remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series J has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    
      5  

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series J and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series J and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series J and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series J, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series J shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends.  Dividends on the Series J will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations,
including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series J shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series J in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series J as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the  
      6  

date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series J will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial
Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series J and all holders of
any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series J as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series J and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate
Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series J and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to
such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series J
and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series J will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series J and any other
shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and
Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series J receive
cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation.    6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series J (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2020 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series J shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
      7  

A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith
determination by the Corporation that, as a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after
March 12, 2015, (ii) any proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after March 12, 2015, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or
other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after March 12, 2015, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of Series J then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy
guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series J is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the  appropriate
federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series J will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series J will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series J.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series J shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series J designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series J. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series J are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series J at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series J
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series J at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series J shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series J so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to  
      8  

accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such
redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted
by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
 7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series J shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series J, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series J or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series J or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series J and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series J and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series J and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series J together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting  
      9  

together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director
(other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding
shares of Series J and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate
governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a
vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series J or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is
received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each
be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series J are
outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series J and any Voting Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series J . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series J, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series J, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series J remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series J, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
J, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, Series G, Series H or Series I, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the
 
      10  

Series J with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series J.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series J for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the
matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification,
merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series J, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series J, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series J:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series J that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series J shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series J shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series J (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series J is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series J are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.     8. Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series J may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series J as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
      11  

9.  Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series J shall be sufficiently
given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
   10.  No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series J shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the
Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights . The shares of Series J shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 18 th  day of March, 2015.       

MORGAN STANLEY    

By   
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   Signature Page to Certificate of Designation   

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 d48186dex105.htm
 EX-10.5

EX-10.5 

EXHIBIT 10.5  
  AMENDMENT TO THE   
  401(k) PLAN     Morgan
Stanley   Co. LLC (the  Company ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) as follows:  
 1. Effective August 28, 2015, Section 5(j), Rollover Contributions, is amended by inserting  and except as
provided in Section 5(k)  after the phrase  determines otherwise on a nondiscriminatory basis,  in the second sentence thereof.  
 2. Effective August 28, 2015, Sections 5(k) and 5(l) are redesignated as Sections 5(l) and 5(m), respectively, and a new
Section 5(k) is inserted as follows:     (k)  In-Plan Roth Rollovers . (i) Commencing August 28, 2015, a
Participant, spousal Beneficiary or an alternate payee (as defined in Code section 414(p)) who is a spouse or former spouse of the Participant with a vested Account balance may at any time make an In-Plan Roth Rollover in accordance with this
Section 5(k). An In-Plan Roth Rollover shall have the effect of converting any amounts held in such individual s Account from pre-tax amounts to Roth after-tax amounts under the Plan and, except as provided in this Section 5(k), shall
thereafter be considered Roth Elective Deferrals (and earnings). An In-Plan Roth Rollover shall be available without regard to whether the designated amount is otherwise currently distributable under the Plan.  
 (ii) The minimum amount eligible for an In-Plan Roth Rollover is $500. A Participant, spousal Beneficiary or alternate payee
shall be permitted up to two In-Plan Roth Rollovers per Plan Year.    (iii) Except as provided in Section 5(k)(i), any
amount attributable to an In-Plan Roth Rollover (including earnings) shall remain subject to all distribution restrictions under the Plan as applied to such amounts prior to the In-Plan Roth Rollover.  
 (iv) For sake of clarity, in the event any amount attributable to an In-Plan Roth Rollover is determined to be an Excess
Elective Deferral or an Excess Contribution, the provisions of Sections 5(i)(iv) and 5(i)(v) shall apply to such amount.  
 (v) Any election of an In-Plan Roth Rollover shall be irrevocable.  
 (vi) Restrictions on In-Plan Roth Rollovers.  
 (a) Cost basis in units of the Morgan Stanley Stock Fund shall not carry over to the extent an In-Plan Roth Rollover includes
units of the Morgan Stanley Stock Fund. Units of the Morgan Stanley Stock Fund shall acquire a new cost basis as of the date of the In-Plan Roth Rollover attributable to such units.  
 (b) No election to make an In-Plan Roth Rollover shall apply to any unvested amount or any loan balance.   

3. Effective January 1, 2015, Section 11(e)(i), Designation of
Beneficiary, is amended by inserting the following at the end thereof:     If a Participant has named any individual who is resident or
located in an Office of Foreign Asset Control  ( OFAC ) -sanctioned  country (or who is otherwise an OFAC  specially designated national ) as his or her Beneficiary under the Plan, any
such individual shall be treated as though he or she had not been designated under the Plan, and such designation shall be null and void.   
 * * * * * * * * *    IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 22 nd  day of December, 2015.  

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. LLC  

By: 
   
   /s/ Jeffrey Brodsky   

Title: 
   
 Chief Human Resources Officer  

2  

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.38>
 4
 d48186dex1038.htm
 EX-10.38

EX-10.38 

EXHIBIT 10.38   
  M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  2007 E QUITY  I NCENTIVE  C OMPENSATION  P LAN    
  [YEAR] DISCRETIONARY RETENTION AWARDS   
  AWARD CERTIFICATE FOR STOCK UNITS   

T ABLE   OF  C ONTENTS   FOR 
A WARD  C ERTIFICATE        

M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  [YEAR]   
  D ISCRETIONARY  R ETENTION  A WARDS    
  A WARD  C ERTIFICATE   FOR  S TOCK  U NITS    
 Morgan Stanley has awarded you retention stock units as part of your discretionary incentive compensation for services provided during [year]
and as an incentive for you to remain in Employment and provide services to the Firm through the Scheduled Vesting Date(s). This Award Certificate sets forth the general terms and conditions of your [year] stock unit award. The number of stock units
in your award has been communicated to you independently.    If you are employed outside the United States, you will also receive an
   International Supplement    that contains supplemental terms and conditions for your [year] stock unit award. You should read this Award Certificate in conjunction with the International Supplement, if applicable, in order to
understand the terms and conditions of your stock unit award.    Your stock unit award is made pursuant to the Plan. References to
 stock units  in this Award Certificate mean only those stock units included in your [year] stock unit award, and the terms and conditions herein apply only to such award. If you receive any other award under the Plan or another equity
compensation plan, it will be governed by the terms and conditions of the applicable award documentation, which may be different from those herein.  
 The purpose of the stock unit award is, among other things, to align your interests with the interests of the Firm and Morgan Stanley s
stockholders, to reward you for your continued Employment and service to the Firm in the future and your compliance with the Firm s policies (including the Code of Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential
and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business interests, and to ensure an orderly transition of responsibilities. In view of these purposes, you will earn [each portion of] your [year]
stock unit award only if you (1) remain in continuous Employment through the [applicable] Scheduled Vesting Date (subject to limited exceptions set forth below), (2) do not engage in any activity that is a cancellation event set forth in
Section 10(c) below   and   (3) satisfy obligations you owe to the Firm as set forth in Section 12 below. Even if your award has vested, you will have no right to your award if a cancellation event occurs under the circumstances
set forth in Section 10(c) below. As Morgan Stanley deems appropriate, it will require you to provide a written certification or other evidence, from time to time in its sole discretion, to confirm that no cancellation event has occurred,
including upon a termination of Employment and/or during a specified period of time prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date. If you fail to timely provide any required certification or other evidence, Morgan Stanley will cancel your
award. It is your responsibility to provide the Executive Compensation Department with your up-to-date contact information.  
      2  

Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text have the
meanings set forth in Section 22 below. Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text or in Section 22 below have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  

1.  
   Stock units generally .       Each of your stock units corresponds to one share of
Morgan Stanley common stock. A stock unit constitutes a contingent and unsecured promise of Morgan Stanley to pay you one share of Morgan Stanley common stock on the conversion date for the stock unit. As the holder of stock units, you have only the
rights of a general unsecured creditor of Morgan Stanley. You will not be a stockholder with respect to the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your stock units unless and until your stock units convert to shares.  

2.  
   Vesting schedule and conversion .        (a)    Vesting schedule.  
Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your stock units will vest on the Scheduled Vesting Date[(s)]. 1  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your stock units
will vest only if you continue to provide future services to the Firm by remaining in continuous Employment through the [applicable] Scheduled Vesting Date and providing value added services to the Firm during this timeframe. The special vesting
terms set forth in Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Award Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by reason of your death or Disability, (ii) upon your Full Career Retirement, (iii) if the Firm terminates your employment in
an involuntary termination under the circumstances described in Section 6, (iv) upon a Governmental Service Termination or (v) upon a Qualifying Termination. Vested stock units remain subject to the cancellation and withholding
provisions set forth in this Award Certificate.     (b)    Conversion   .  Except as otherwise provided in this Award
Certificate, your stock units will, to the extent vested, convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date[(s)] 2 , with any fractional shares to be
distributed in cash. The special conversion provisions set forth in Sections 5(a), 5(b), 7 and 8 of this Award Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by reason of your death or you die after termination of your Employment,
(ii) upon your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set forth in Section 7(b) or (iii) upon a Qualifying Termination.

1   
 The vesting schedule and related vesting date(s) presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The vesting schedule and related vesting date(s) applicable to awards may vary.    

2   
 The conversion schedule and related conversion date(s) presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The conversion schedule and related conversion date(s) applicable to awards may vary.    

      3  

The shares delivered upon conversion of stock units pursuant to this Section 2(b) will not
be subject to any transfer restrictions, other than those that may arise under the securities laws, the Firm s policies or Section 12 below, or to cancellation under the circumstances set forth in Section 10(c). 3      (c)    Accelerated conversion.   Morgan Stanley shall have no right to
accelerate the conversion of any of your stock units, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not result in your being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes
before your stock units convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or your incurring additional tax or interest under Section 409A. If any stock units are converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock prior to the [applicable]
Scheduled Conversion Date pursuant to this Section 2(c), these shares may not be transferable and may remain subject to applicable vesting, cancellation and withholding provisions, as determined by Morgan Stanley.  
  (d)    Rule of construction for timing of conversion   .  Whenever this Award Certificate provides for your stock units
to convert to shares on a Scheduled Conversion Date or upon a different specified event or date, such conversion will be considered to have been timely made, and neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against
the Firm for damages based on a delay in conversion of your stock units (or delivery of Morgan Stanley shares following conversion) and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate) in respect of any such
delay, as long as conversion is made by December 31st of the year in which occurs the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date or such other specified event or date or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following such
specified event or date. Similarly, neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages, and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate), based on
any acceleration of the conversion of your stock units pursuant to Section 2(c), as applicable.      

3.  
   Special provision for certain employees .       Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this Award Certificate, if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its executive officers at the time provided for the conversion of your vested stock units and determines that your compensation may not be fully deductible by virtue of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, Morgan Stanley shall delay payment of the nondeductible portion of your compensation, including delaying, to the extent nondeductible, conversion of the stock units, unless the Committee, in its sole
discretion, determines not to delay such conversion. This delay will continue until your Separation from Service or, to the extent permitted under Section 409A, the end of the first earlier taxable year of the Firm as of the last day of which
you are no longer an executive officer (subject to earlier conversion in the event of your death as described below).      

3   
 Certain stock unit awards may include transfer restrictions for a specified period following the applicable Scheduled Conversion Date.    
      4  

4.  
   Dividend equivalent reinvestment .       If Morgan Stanley pays a regular or ordinary
dividend on its common stock, a dividend equivalent will be credited with respect to your stock units outstanding on the dividend record date and reinvested in the form of additional stock units. The additional number of stock units credited to you
as a result of this dividend reinvestment shall equal:    (i) the cash dividend paid on one share of Morgan Stanley common
stock,  multiplied by     (ii) the number of stock units subject to your [year] stock unit award on the applicable
dividend record date; with the product of (i) and (ii),  divided by     (iii) the fair market value of a share of
Morgan Stanley common stock on the dividend payment date, as determined by Morgan Stanley in its sole discretion.    Morgan Stanley will
credit the dividend equivalents when it pays the corresponding dividend on its common stock. The additional stock units credited to you as a result of the reinvestment of dividend equivalents will vest and convert at the same time as, and be subject
to the same vesting and cancellation provisions set forth in this Award Certificate with respect to, the corresponding stock units, and references to  stock units  in this Award Certificate shall include such additional stock units
credited to you as a result of the reinvestment of dividend equivalents described in this Section 4. Any fractional stock units resulting from the application of this Section 4 will, to the extent vested, be paid in cash on the
[applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date (or, subject to Section 2(d), on the next administratively practicable payroll date). The decision to pay a dividend and, if so, the amount of any such dividend, is determined by Morgan Stanley in its sole
discretion. No dividend equivalents will be paid to you on any canceled stock units.      

5.  
   Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement .       The following special vesting and
payment terms apply to your stock units:     (a)    Death during Employment.   If your Employment terminates due to death, all
of your unvested stock units will vest on the date of your death. Your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock and be delivered to the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to Section 14 or the legal representative
of your estate, as applicable, upon your death,  provided  that your estate or beneficiary notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death.  
 After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 10(c) will no longer apply, and the shares delivered upon conversion
of stock units pursuant to this Section 5(a) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions (other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Firm s policies).  
      5  

(b)    Death after termination of Employment.   If you die after the termination
of your Employment but prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date, any vested stock units that you held at the time of your death will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock and be delivered to the beneficiary you have designated
pursuant to Section 14 or the legal representative of your estate, as applicable, upon your death,  provided  that your estate or beneficiary notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death.  
 After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 10(c) will no longer apply, and the shares delivered upon conversion
of stock units pursuant to this Section 5(b) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions (other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Firm s policies).  
  (c)    Disability [or Full Career Retirement]. 4    If your Employment
terminates due to Disability [or in a Full Career Retirement], all of your unvested stock units will vest on the date your Employment terminates. Your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the [applicable] Scheduled
Conversion Date. The cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date.      

6.  
   Involuntary termination by the Firm .       If the Firm terminates your employment
under circumstances not involving any cancellation event set forth in Section 10(c), your unvested stock units will vest on the date your employment with the Firm terminates and your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common
stock on the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date, provided that you sign an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm. If you do not sign such an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm within the timeframe set by the Firm in
connection with your involuntary termination as described in this Section 6, any stock units that were unvested immediately prior to your termination shall be canceled. The cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award
Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date.      

7.  
   Governmental Service .        (a)    General treatment of awards upon
Governmental Service Termination   .  If your Employment terminates in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 10(c), then,  provided  that you sign an agreement
satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 7(c), all of your unvested stock units will vest on the date of your Governmental Service Termination. Your vested stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley
common stock on the date of your Governmental Service Termination.      

4   
 Certain stock unit awards may not include a provision for Full Career Retirement.    
      6  

(b)    General treatment of vested awards upon acceptance of employment at a
Governmental Employer following termination of Employment.   If your Employment terminates other than in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 10(c) and, following your termination
of Employment, you accept employment with a Governmental Employer, then,  provided  that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 7(c), all of your outstanding vested stock units will
convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock upon your commencement of such employment,  provided  you present the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment the divestiture of your continued interest
in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at such
Governmental Employer.     (c)    Repayment obligation.   If any activity or event constituting a cancellation event set
forth in Section 10(c) occurs within the applicable period of time that would have resulted in cancellation of all or a portion of your stock units had they not converted to shares pursuant to Sections 7(a) or 7(b) above, you will be required
to pay to Morgan Stanley an amount equal to:     (1)  the number of stock units that would have been canceled upon the
occurrence of such cancellation event multiplied by the fair market value, determined using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley, of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your stock units converted to shares of Morgan Stanley
common stock; plus     (2)  interest on the amount described in clause (1) above at the average rate of interest
Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions during the period from the date of such conversion through the date preceding the payment date.      

8.  
   Qualifying Termination .       If your employment terminates in a Qualifying
Termination, all of your unvested stock units will vest, cancellation provisions will lapse, and, subject to Section 9, your stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock upon your Qualifying Termination. 5       

9.  
   Specified employees .       Notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate,
if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its  specified employees  as defined in Section 409A at the time of your Separation from Service, any conversion of your stock units that otherwise would occur upon your Separation from
Service (including, without limitation, stock units whose conversion was delayed due to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as provided in Section 3, and  

5   
 Certain stock unit awards may provide for cancellation and withholding provisions and transfer restrictions to apply through the applicable Scheduled Conversion Date.    
      7  

stock units payable upon your Qualifying Termination, as provided in Section 8) will be delayed until the first business day following the date that is six months after your Separation from
Service;  provided  ,   however , that in the event that your death, your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set
forth in Section 7(b) occurs at any time after the Date of the Award, conversion and payment will be made in accordance with Section 5(a), 5(b) or 7, as applicable.      

10.  
   Cancellation of awards under certain circumstances .        (a)
   Cancellation of unvested awards.   Your unvested stock units will be canceled if your Employment terminates for any reason other than death, Disability, [a Full Career Retirement], an involuntary termination by the Firm described in
Section 6, a Governmental Service Termination or a Qualifying Termination.     (b)    General treatment of vested
awards.   Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your vested stock units will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date. The cancellation and withholding provisions set
forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date.     (c)    Cancellation of
awards under certain circumstances. 6    The cancellation events set forth in this Section 10(c) are designed, among other things, to incentivize compliance with the Firm s policies
(including the Code of Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business interests, and to ensure an orderly
transition of responsibilities. This Section 10(c) shall apply notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate (except where sections in this Award Certificate specifically provide that the cancellation events set forth in this
Section 10(c) no longer apply).    Your stock units, even if vested, are not earned until the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date
(and until you satisfy all obligations you owe to the Firm as set forth in Section 12 below) and, unless prohibited by applicable law, will be canceled prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date in any of the circumstances set forth
below in this Section 10(c). Although you will become the beneficial owner of shares underlying your stock units following conversion of your stock units, the Firm may retain custody of your shares following conversion of your stock units
pending any investigation or other review that impacts the determination as to whether the stock units are cancellable under the circumstances set forth below and, in such an instance, the shares underlying such stock units shall be forfeited in the
event the Firm determines that the stock units were cancellable.      

6   
 The cancellation provisions presented in Section 10(c) of this form of Award Certificate and any corresponding definitions are indicative. The cancellation provisions and corresponding definitions applicable to
awards may vary.    
      8  

(1)  Competitive Activity   .  If, prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion
Date, you engage in Competitive Activity in connection with or following your resignation of Employment, then all of your outstanding stock units will be cancelled immediately, subject to applicable law.  
  (2)  Other Events   .  If any of the following events occur at any time before the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date, all
of your outstanding stock units (whether or not vested) will be canceled immediately, subject to applicable law:    (i) Your
Employment is terminated for Cause or you engage in conduct constituting Cause (either during or following Employment and whether or not your Employment has been terminated as of the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date);  
 (ii) Following the termination of your Employment, the Firm determines that your Employment could have been terminated for
Cause [(for these purposes,  Cause  will be determined without giving consideration to any  cure  period included in the definition of  Cause   
 (iii) You disclose Confidential and Proprietary Information to any unauthorized person outside the Firm, or use or attempt to
use Confidential and Proprietary Information other than in connection with the business of the Firm; or you fail to comply with your obligations (either during or after your Employment) under the Firm s Code of Conduct (and any applicable
supplements) or otherwise existing between you and the Firm, relating to Confidential and Proprietary Information or an assignment, procurement or enforcement of rights in Confidential and Proprietary Information;  
 (iv) You engage in a Wrongful Solicitation;  
 (v) You make any [Unauthorized Comments] [Unauthorized Disclosures or Defamatory or Disparaging Comments about the Firm];  
 (vi) You fail or refuse, following your termination of Employment, to cooperate with or assist the Firm in a timely manner in
connection with any investigation, regulatory matter, lawsuit or arbitration in which the Firm is a subject, target or party and as to which you may have pertinent information; or  
 (vii) You resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation
consistent with the notice period requirements undertaken by you in connection with your employment offer letter, Sign-On or Notice   Non-Solicitation Agreement or any other contractual obligation in connection with the terms and conditions
of your employment, or, in the event no such prior contractual notice period requirements exist, you resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation of at least thirty
(30) days.  
      9  

(3)  Clawback Cancellation Events .      
 (i) All of your stock units (whether or not vested) will be canceled in full, or in the case of clause (c) below, in full
or in part, subject to applicable law, if at any time before the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date:    (a) you take any
action, or you fail to take any action (including with respect to direct supervisory responsibilities), where such action or omission:      

(i) 
 causes a restatement of the Firm s consolidated financial results;        

(ii) 
 constitutes a violation by you of the Firm s Global Risk Management Principles, Policies and Standards (where prior authorization and approval of appropriate senior management was not obtained) whether such action
results in a favorable or unfavorable impact to the Firm s consolidated financial results; or        

(iii) 
 causes a loss in the current year on a trade or transaction originating in the current year or in any prior year for which revenue was recognized and which was a factor in your award determination, and violated internal
control policies that resulted from your:        

(A) 
 violation of business unit, product or desk specific risk parameters;        

(B) 
 use of an incorrect valuation model, method, or inputs for transactions subject to the  STAR  approval process;        

(C) 
 failure to perform appropriate due diligence prior to a trade or transaction or failure to provide critical information known at the time of the transaction that might negatively affect the valuation of the transaction;
or        

(D) 
 failure to timely monitor or escalate to management a loss position pursuant to applicable policies and procedures; or    
      10  

(b) [The Firm and/or relevant business unit suffers a material downturn in its
financial performance or the Firm and/or relevant business unit suffers a material failure of risk management.]    In the event that the Firm
determines, in its sole discretion, that your action or omission is as described in clause (c) and you do not engage in any other cancellation or clawback event described in this Section 10(c), the number of stock units comprising your
[year] stock unit award will be reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the pre-tax loss, and the denominator of which is the total revenue originally recognized by the Firm which was a factor in your award determination.  
 (ii) [With respect to members of the Firm Operating Committee as of [the December 31 st  preceding the Date of Award], the Committee may cancel all of your stock units (whether or not vested), in full or in part, if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that at any time
before the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date you had significant responsibility for a material adverse outcome for the Firm or any of its businesses or functions. The Committee shall have the sole authority to interpret this provision and its
determinations shall be final and binding on all persons.]     (4)  [Clawback for Code Staff .  If you are designated by the Firm
as Code Staff for [year], any shares or amounts distributed in respect of your award are subject to repayment, recovery and recapture pursuant to the Morgan Stanley Code Staff Clawback Policy, as amended from time to time, and any applicable
clawback, repayment, recoupment or recovery requirements imposed under applicable laws, rules and regulations.]      

11.  
   Tax and other withholding obligations .       Any vesting, whether on a Scheduled
Vesting Date or some other date, of a stock unit award and any conversion of a stock unit award or crediting of dividend equivalents, shall be subject to the Firm s withholding of all required United States federal, state, local and
foreign income and employment/payroll taxes (including Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes). You authorize the Firm to withhold such taxes from any payroll or other payment or compensation to you, including by canceling or accelerating payment
of a portion of this award in an amount not to exceed such taxes imposed upon such vesting, conversion or crediting and any additional taxes imposed as a result of such cancellation or acceleration, and to take such other action as the Firm may deem
advisable to enable it and you to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations, assessments, or other governmental charges, whether of the United States or any other jurisdiction, relating to the vesting or
conversion of your stock units or the crediting of dividend equivalents. However, the Firm may not deduct or withhold such sum from any payroll or any other payment or compensation (including from your award), except to the extent it is not
prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before your stock units convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or to incur interest or additional tax under
Section 409A.  
      11  

Pursuant to rules and procedures that Morgan Stanley establishes, you may elect to satisfy the
tax or other withholding obligations arising upon conversion of your stock units by having Morgan Stanley withhold shares of Morgan Stanley common stock in an amount sufficient to satisfy the tax or other withholding obligations. Shares
withheld will be valued using the fair market value of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your stock units convert (or such other appropriate date determined by Morgan Stanley based on local legal, tax or
accounting rules and practices) using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley. In order to comply with applicable accounting standards or the Firm s policies in effect from time to time, Morgan Stanley may limit the
amount of shares that you may have withheld.      

12.  
   Obligations you owe to the Firm .       As a condition to the earning, conversion or
distribution of your award, the Firm may require you to pay such sum to the Firm as may be necessary to satisfy any obligation that you owe to the Firm. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Certificate, your award, even if vested or
converted, is not earned until after such obligations and any tax withholdings or other deductions required by law are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Morgan Stanley may not reduce the number of shares to be delivered upon
conversion of your stock units or delay the payment of your award to satisfy obligations that you owe to the Firm except (i) to the extent authorized under Section 11, relating to tax and other withholding obligations or (ii) to the
extent such reduction or delay is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before your stock units convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or to incur
additional tax or interest under Section 409A.    Morgan Stanley s determination of any amount that you owe the Firm shall be
conclusive. The fair market value of Morgan Stanley common stock for purposes of the foregoing provisions shall be determined using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley.  

13.  
   Nontransferability .       You may not sell, pledge, hypothecate, assign or otherwise
transfer your award, other than as provided in Section 14 (which allows you to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries in the event of your death) or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This prohibition includes any assignment or
other transfer that purports to occur by operation of law or otherwise. During your lifetime, payments relating to your award will be made only to you.  
 Your personal representatives, heirs, legatees, beneficiaries, successors and assigns, and those of Morgan Stanley, shall all be bound by, and
shall benefit from, the terms and conditions of your award.  
      12  

14.  
   Designation of a beneficiary .       You may make a written designation of beneficiary
or beneficiaries to receive all or part of your award to be delivered or paid under this Award Certificate in the event of your death. To make a beneficiary designation, you must complete and submit the Beneficiary Designation form on the Executive
Compensation website.    Any shares that become deliverable upon your death, and as to which a designation of beneficiary is not in effect,
will be distributed to your estate.    If you previously filed a designation of beneficiary form for your equity awards with the Executive
Compensation Department, such form will also apply to all of your equity awards, including this award. You may replace or revoke your beneficiary designation at any time. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive
shares or payments under this award, Morgan Stanley may determine in its sole discretion to deliver the shares or make the payments in question to your estate. Morgan Stanley s determination shall be binding and conclusive on all persons and it
will have no further liability to anyone with respect to this award.      

15.  
   Ownership and possession .        (a)    Before conversion   . 
Generally, you will not have any rights as a stockholder in the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your stock units unless and until your stock units convert to shares.  
 If Morgan Stanley contributes shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your stock units to a grantor trust it has established,
you may be permitted to direct the trustee how to vote the shares in the trust corresponding to your stock units. Voting rights, if any, are governed by the terms of the grantor trust and Morgan Stanley may amend any such voting rights, in its sole
discretion, at any time. Morgan Stanley is under no obligation to contribute shares corresponding to stock units to a trust. If Morgan Stanley elects not to contribute shares corresponding to your stock units to a trust, you will not have voting
rights with respect to shares corresponding to your stock units until your stock units convert to shares.     (b)    Following
conversion   .  Subject to Section 10(c), following conversion of your stock units you will be the beneficial owner of the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock issued to you, and you will be entitled to all rights of ownership,
including voting rights and the right to receive cash or stock dividends or other distributions paid on the shares.     (c)
   Custody of shares   .  Morgan Stanley may maintain possession of the shares subject to your award until such time as your shares are no longer subject to restrictions on transfer.  

16.  
   Securities law compliance matters .       Morgan Stanley may affix a legend to any
stock certificates representing shares of Morgan Stanley common stock issued upon conversion of your stock units (and any stock certificates that may subsequently be issued in substitution for the original certificates). The legend will read
substantially as follows:  
      13  

THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS STOCK CERTIFICATE WERE ISSUED PURSUANT TO THE MORGAN STANLEY
2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN AND ARE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THEREOF AND OF AN AWARD CERTIFICATE FOR STOCK UNITS AND ANY SUPPLEMENT THERETO.   
  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS STOCK CERTIFICATE MAY BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER BY VIRTUE OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
     COPIES OF THE PLAN, THE AWARD CERTIFICATE FOR STOCK UNITS AND ANY SUPPLEMENT THERETO ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH THE EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION DEPARTMENT.     Morgan Stanley may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against such shares if it determines that
such an order is necessary or advisable.      

17.  
   Compliance with laws and regulation .       Any sale, assignment, transfer, pledge,
mortgage, encumbrance or other disposition of shares issued upon conversion of your stock units (whether directly or indirectly, whether or not for value, and whether or not voluntary) must be made in compliance with any applicable constitution,
rule, regulation or policy of any of the exchanges or associations or other institutions with which the Firm or a Related Employer has membership or other privileges, and any applicable law or applicable rule or regulation of any governmental
agency, self-regulatory organization or state or federal regulatory body.      
    (a)    No right to continued Employment.   This
award is not an employment agreement, and nothing in this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall alter your status as an  at-will  employee of the Firm or your employment status at a Related
Employer. None of this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing your employment by the Firm or a Related Employer, or as giving you any right to continue in the employ of the Firm
or a Related Employer, during any period (including without limitation the period between the Date of the Award and a Scheduled Vesting Date or Scheduled Conversion Date, or any portion of any of these periods), nor shall they be construed as giving
you any right to be reemployed by the Firm or a Related Employer following any termination of Employment.     (b)    No right to
future awards.   This award, and all other awards of stock units and other equity-based awards, are discretionary. This award does not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive another award of stock units or any other equity-based
award at any time in the future or in respect of any future period.  
      14  

(c)    No effect on future employment compensation.   Morgan Stanley has made
this award to you in its sole discretion. This award does not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive compensation in any specific amount for any future year, and does not diminish in any way the Firm s discretion to determine the
amount, if any, of your compensation. This award is not part of your base salary or wages and will not be taken into account in determining any other employment-related rights you may have, such as rights to pension or severance pay.  

19.  
   Consents under local law .       Your award is conditioned upon the making of all
filings and the receipt of all consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable local law.      
   Morgan Stanley reserves the right to modify or amend
unilaterally the terms and conditions of your award, without first asking your consent, or to waive any terms and conditions that operate in favor of Morgan Stanley. These amendments may include (but are not limited to) changes that Morgan Stanley
considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in any, or the adoption of any new, Legal Requirement. Morgan Stanley may not modify your award in a manner that would materially impair your rights in your award without your consent;
 provided ,  however , that Morgan Stanley may, but is not required to, without your consent, amend or modify your award in any manner that Morgan Stanley considers necessary or advisable to (i) comply with any Legal Requirement,
(ii) ensure that your award does not result in an excise or other supplemental tax on the Firm under any Legal Requirement, or (iii) ensure that your award is not subject to United States federal, state or local income tax or any
equivalent taxes in territories outside the United States prior to conversion of your stock units to shares or delivery of such shares following conversion. Morgan Stanley will notify you of any amendment of your award that affects your rights. Any
amendment or waiver of a provision of this Award Certificate (other than any amendment or waiver applicable to all recipients generally), which amendment or waiver operates in your favor or confers a benefit on you, must be in writing and signed by
the Chief Human Resources Officer or the Chief Operating Officer (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective.      
   This Award Certificate and the related legal relations between
you and Morgan Stanley will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts or choice of law, rule or principle that might otherwise refer the interpretation of the award to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction.  
      15  

For purposes of this Award Certificate, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:     (a)     Access Person    means an individual designated by the Firm s
Compliance Department as an  access employee  or  access person , which, for example, currently includes all Managing Directors of the Firm.  
  (b)     Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.  
  (c)     Cause    means:  
  (1)  any act or omission which constitutes a breach of your obligations to the Firm, including, without limitation,
(A) your failure to comply with any notice or non-solicitation restrictions that may be applicable to you or (B) your failure to comply with the Firm s compliance, ethics or risk management standards, or your failure or refusal to
perform satisfactorily any duties reasonably required of you[, which breach, failure or refusal (if susceptible to cure) is not corrected (other than failure to correct by reason of your incapacity due to physical or mental illness) within ten
(10) business days after written notification thereof to you by the Firm];     (2)  your commission of any
dishonest or fraudulent act, or any other act or omission, which has caused or may reasonably be expected to cause injury to the interest or business reputation of the Firm; or  
  (3)  your violation of any securities, commodities or banking laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such
laws, or rules or regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Firm is a member or of any policy of the Firm relating to compliance with any of the foregoing;  
  provided,  that an act or omission shall constitute  Cause  for purposes of this definition if the Firm determines, in its sole
discretion, that such action or omission is described in Section 10(c)(3)(i)(a)(ii) and is deliberate, intentional or willful.     (d)
 A    Change in Control    shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following conditions shall have been satisfied:  
  (1)  any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under Section 409A), other than
(A) any employee plan established by Morgan Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) Morgan Stanley or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (C) an underwriter temporarily holding
securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (D) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of Morgan Stanley in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Morgan Stanley, is or becomes, during any
12-month period, the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person(s) any  
      16  

securities acquired directly from Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of the
total voting power of the stock of Morgan Stanley;  provided ,  however , that the provisions of this subsection (1) are not intended to apply to or include as a Change in Control any transaction that is specifically excepted from the
definition of Change in Control under subsection (3) below;     (2)  a change in the composition of the Board such
that, during any 12-month period, the individuals who, as of the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the    Existing Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least 50% of the Board;  provided ,
 however , that any individual becoming a member of the Board subsequent to the beginning of such period whose election, or nomination for election by Morgan Stanley s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors immediately prior to the date of such appointment or election shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Existing Board;  
  (3)  the consummation of a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley with any other corporation or other entity, or the
issuance of voting securities in connection with a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Morgan Stanley) pursuant to applicable stock exchange requirements;  provided  that immediately following such
merger or consolidation the voting securities of Morgan Stanley outstanding immediately prior thereto do not continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity of such merger
or consolidation or parent entity thereof) 50% or more of the total voting power of Morgan Stanley stock (or if Morgan Stanley is not the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation, 50% or more of the total voting power of the stock of such
surviving entity or parent entity thereof); and  provided further  that a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Morgan Stanley (or similar transaction) in which no person (as determined under Section 409A) is
or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person any securities acquired directly from Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in
connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or the combined voting power of Morgan Stanley s then outstanding
voting securities shall not be considered a Change in Control; or     (4)  the complete liquidation of Morgan Stanley
or the sale or disposition by Morgan Stanley of all or substantially all of Morgan Stanley s assets in which any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under Section 409A) acquires (or has acquired during the
12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from Morgan Stanley that have a total gross fair market value equal to more than 50% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of
Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.  
      17  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if
there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns substantially all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions and (y) no event or circumstances described in any of clauses
(1) through (4) above shall constitute a Change in Control unless such event or circumstances also constitute a change in the ownership or effective control of Morgan Stanley, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of Morgan
Stanley s assets, as defined in Section 409A. In addition, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred upon the acquisition of additional control of Morgan Stanley by any one person or more than one person acting as a group that
is considered to effectively control Morgan Stanley.    For purposes of the provisions of this Award Certificate, terms used in the
definition of a Change in Control shall be as defined or interpreted pursuant to Section 409A.     (e)
    Committee    means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee
under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.     (f)     Competitive Activity    means:  
  (1)  becoming, or entering into any arrangement as, an employee, officer, partner, member, proprietor, director,
independent contractor, consultant, advisor, representative or agent of, or serving in any similar position or capacity with, a Competitor, where you will be responsible for providing, or managing or supervising others who are providing, services
(x) that are similar or substantially related to the services that you provided to the Firm, or (y) that you had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for at the Firm, or (z) that call for the application of the
same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as those utilized by you in your services for the Firm, in each such case, at any time during the year preceding the termination of your employment with the Firm; or  
  (2)  either alone or in concert with others, forming, or acquiring a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting interest or
profit participation in, a Competitor.     (g)     Competitor    means any corporation, partnership or other entity
that competes, or that owns a significant interest in any corporation, partnership or other entity that competes, with any business activity the Firm engages in, or that you reasonably knew or should have known that the Firm was planning to engage
in, at the time of the termination of your Employment.     (h)     Confidential and Proprietary Information   
means any information that is classified as confidential in the Firm s Global Policy on Confidential Information or that may have intrinsic value to the Firm, the Firm s clients or other parties with which the Firm has a relationship, or
that may provide the Firm with a competitive advantage, including, without  
      18  

limitation, any trade secrets; inventions (whether or not patentable); formulas; flow charts; computer programs; access codes or other systems information; algorithms; technology and business
processes; business, product or marketing plans; sales and other forecasts; financial information; client lists or other intellectual property; information relating to compensation and benefits; and public information that becomes proprietary as a
result of the Firm s compilation of that information for use in its business,  provided  that such Confidential and Proprietary Information does not include any information which is available for use by the general public or is generally
available for use within the relevant business or industry other than as a result of your action. Confidential and Proprietary Information may be in any medium or form, including, without limitation, physical documents, computer files or discs,
electronic communications, videotapes, audiotapes, and oral communications.     (i)     Date of the Award    means
[insert grant date, which typically will coincide approximately with the end of the year in respect of which the award is made].     (j)
 [You will be deemed to have made    Defamatory or Disparaging Comments    about the Firm if, at any time, you make, publish, or issue, or cause to be made, published or issued, in any medium whatsoever to any person or entity
external to the Firm, any derogatory, defamatory or disparaging statement regarding the Firm, its businesses or strategic plans, products, practices, policies, personnel or any other Firm matter. Nothing contained herein is intended to prevent you
from testifying truthfully or making truthful statements or submissions in litigation or other legal, administrative or regulatory proceedings or internal investigations.]  
  (k)     Disability    means any condition that would qualify for a benefit under any group long-term disability plan
maintained by the Firm and applicable to you.     (l)     Employed    and    Employment   
refer to employment with the Firm and/or Related Employment.     (m)  The    Firm    means Morgan Stanley
(including any successor thereto) together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. For purposes of the definitions of  Cause,   Confidential and Proprietary Information,  [ Defamatory or Disparaging Comments, ]
[ Unauthorized Comments, ] [ Unauthorized Disclosures ] and  Wrongful Solicitation  set forth in this Award Certificate and Section 10(c)(2)(vi) of this Award Certificate, references to the  Firm  shall
refer severally to the Firm as defined in the preceding sentence and your Related Employer, if any. For purposes of the cancellation provisions set forth in this Award Certificate relating to disclosure or use of Confidential and Proprietary
Information, references to the  Firm  shall refer to the Firm as defined in the second preceding sentence or your Related Employer, as applicable.  
  (n)  [   Full Career Retirement    means the termination of your Employment by you or by the Firm for any reason
other than under circumstances involving any cancellation event described in Section 10(c), and other than due to your death or Disability, a Governmental Service Termination or pursuant to a Qualifying Termination, if you meet any of the
following criteria as of your termination date [and you have provided the Firm at least 12 months  advance notice of such termination]:  
      19  

(1)  you have attained age 50 and completed at least 12 years of service as a
[    ] 7  of the Firm or equivalent officer title; or     (2)
 you have attained age 50 and completed at least 15 years of service as an officer of the Firm at the level of [    ] 8  or above; or  
  (3)  you have completed at least 20 years of service with the Firm; or  
  (4)  you have attained age 55 and have completed at least 5 years of service with the Firm and the sum of your age and years of service
equals or exceeds 65. 9     For the purposes of the foregoing definition,
service with the Firm will include any period of service with the following entities and any of their predecessors:     (A)
 AB Asesores (   ABS   ) prior to its acquisition by the Firm ( provided  that only years of service as a partner of ABS shall count towards years of service as an officer);  
  (B)  Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and its subsidiaries (   MS Group   ) prior to the merger with and
into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;     (C)  Miller Anderson   Sherrerd, L.L.P. prior to its acquisition
by MS Group;     (D)  Van Kampen Investments Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by MS Group;  
  (E)  FrontPoint Partners LLC and its subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Firm; and  
  (F)  Dean Witter, Discover   Co. and its subsidiaries ( DWD ) prior to the merger of Morgan Stanley
Group Inc. with and into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;     provided  that, in the case of an employee who has
transferred employment from DWD to MS Group or vice versa, a former employee of DWD will receive credit for employment with DWD only if he or she transferred directly from DWD to Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated or its affiliates
subsequent to February 5, 1997, and a former employee of MS Group will receive credit for employment with MS Group only if he or she transferred directly from MS Group to Morgan Stanley DW Inc. or its affiliates subsequent to February 5,
1997.]      

7   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    

8   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    

9   
 Age and service conditions specified in clauses (1) through (4) are indicative and may vary from year to year and for awards granted to certain employees.    
      20  

(o)     Governmental Employer    means a governmental department or
agency, self-regulatory agency or other public service employer.     (p)     Governmental Service Termination   
means the termination of your Employment due to your commencement of employment at a Governmental Employer;  provided  that you have presented the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such new employment, the
divestiture of your continued interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of
interest law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer.     (q)     Internal Revenue Code    means the United
States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder.     (r)     Legal
Requirement    means any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement.  
  (s)     Management Committee    means the Morgan Stanley Management Committee and any successor or equivalent
committee.     (t)     Plan    means the 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.  
  (u)     Qualifying Termination    means your Separation from Service within eighteen (18) months following a
Change in Control under either of the following circumstances: (a) the Firm terminates your employment under circumstances not involving any cancellation event; or (b) you resign from the Firm due to (i) a materially adverse
alteration in your position or in the nature or status of your responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, as determined by the Committee or its delegees, or (ii) the Firm requiring your principal place of
employment to be located more than 75 miles from the location where you were principally employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required travel on the Firm s business to an extent substantially consistent with your business
travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).     (v)     Related
Employment    means your employment with an employer other than the Firm (such employer, herein referred to as a  Related Employer ),  provided  that: (i) you undertake such employment at the written request or with
the written consent of Morgan Stanley s Chief Human Resources Officer (or if such position no longer exists, the holder of an equivalent position); (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment you were an employee of the Firm or
were engaged in Related Employment (as defined herein); and (iii) such employment is recognized by the Firm in its discretion as Related Employment; and,  provided further,  that the Firm may (1) determine at any time in its sole
discretion that employment that was recognized by the Firm as Related Employment no longer qualifies as Related Employment, and (2) condition the designation and benefits of Related Employment on such terms and conditions as the Firm may
determine in its sole discretion; and  provided further , the Firm will  
      21  

not provide for Related Employment except to the extent such treatment is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax
purposes before your stock units convert to shares or to incur additional tax or interest under Section 409A. The designation of employment as Related Employment does not give rise to an employment relationship between you and the Firm, or
otherwise modify your and the Firm s respective rights and obligations.     (w)     Scheduled Conversion
Date    means               , 10   provided , however, that if you remain employed by the Firm on such date and the
applicable date does not occur during an Access Person trading window period, then pursuant to Section 2(d), the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date will be delayed until the first day of the next Access Person trading window period
following the [applicable Scheduled Conversion Date] (but in no event beyond December 31 st  of the year in which the [applicable] Scheduled Conversion Date occurs).  
  (x)     Scheduled Vesting Date    means
              . 11   
  (y)     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and any regulations thereunder.  
  (z)     Separation from Service    means a separation from service with the Firm for purposes of Section 409A
determined using the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) or any successor regulation thereto. For purposes of this definition, Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries and affiliates include (and are limited to) any
corporation that is in the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) as Morgan Stanley and any trade or business that is under common control with Morgan Stanley (within the
meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code), determined in each case in accordance with the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).  
  (aa)  [You will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Comments    about the Firm if, while Employed or following
the termination of your Employment, you make, directly or indirectly, any negative, derogatory, disparaging or defamatory comment, whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity or to any
general public media in any form (including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape, audio tape, computer/Internet format or any other medium) that concerns directly or indirectly the Firm, its
business or operations, or any of its current or former agents, employees, officers, directors, customers or clients.]     (bb)  [You
will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Disclosures    about the Firm if, while Employed or following the termination of your Employment, without having first received written authorization from the Firm, you disclose, or
participate in the disclosure of or      

10   
 May consist of one or more dates.    

11   
 May consist of one or more dates.    
      22  

allow disclosure of, any information about the Firm or its present or former clients, customers, executives, officers, directors or other employees or Board members, or its business or
operations, or legal matters involving the Firm and resolution or settlement thereof, or any aspects of your Employment with the Firm or termination of such Employment (which, for the avoidance of doubt, does not prevent you from confirming your
employment status with the Firm), whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity or to any general public media in any form (including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of
any other kind, as well as film, videotape, television or other broadcasts, audio tape, electronic/Internet or blog format or any other medium).]  
  (cc)  A    Wrongful Solicitation    occurs upon either of the following events:  
  (1)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your
Employment, or within 180 days after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you hire or solicit, recruit, induce,
entice, influence or encourage any Firm employee to leave the Firm or become hired or engaged by another firm;  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to employees with whom you worked or had professional or business
contact, or who worked in or with your business unit, during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your Employment; or  
  (2)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your
Employment, or within 90 days (180 days if you are a member of the Management Committee at the time of notice of termination) after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person,
corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you solicit or entice away or in any manner attempt to persuade any client or customer, or prospective client or customer, of the Firm (i) to discontinue or diminish his, her or
its relationship or prospective relationship with the Firm or (ii) to otherwise provide his, her or its business to any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity which engages in any line of business in which the Firm is engaged
(other than the Firm);  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to clients or customers, or prospective clients or customers, that you worked for on an actual or prospective project or assignment during any notice period
applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your Employment.  
      23  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Morgan Stanley has duly executed and delivered this Award Certificate
as of the Date of the Award.   

MORGAN STANLEY   

/s/  

[Name]  
 
 [Title]  

24  

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 5
 d48186dex1039.htm
 EX-10.39

EX-10.39 

EXHIBIT 10.39   
  M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  M ORGAN  S TANLEY  C OMPENSATION  I NCENTIVE  P LAN    
  [YEAR] DISCRETIONARY RETENTION AWARDS   
  AWARD CERTIFICATE   

T ABLE   OF  C ONTENTS   FOR 
A WARD  C ERTIFICATE        

M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  M ORGAN  S TANLEY  C OMPENSATION  I NCENTIVE  P LAN    
  [Y EAR ] D ISCRETIONARY  R ETENTION  A WARDS    
  A WARD  C ERTIFICATE    
 Morgan Stanley has granted you an award under the Morgan Stanley Compensation Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ) as part of
your discretionary incentive compensation for services provided during [year] and as an incentive for you to remain in Employment and provide services to the Firm through the Scheduled Vesting Date(s). This Award Certificate sets forth the general
terms and conditions of your [year] award under the Plan. The initial value of your [year] award has been communicated to you independently.  
 If you are employed outside the United States, you will also receive an    International Supplement    that contains
supplemental terms and conditions for your [year] award. You should read this Award Certificate in conjunction with the International Supplement, if applicable, and the Plan in order to understand the terms and conditions of your [year] award.  
 Your [year] award is made pursuant to the Plan. References to Applicable Account Value in this Award Certificate mean only the Applicable
Account Value related to your [year] award, and the terms and conditions herein apply only to such award. If you receive any other award under the Plan or another incentive compensation plan, it will be governed by the terms and conditions of the
applicable award documentation, which may be different from those herein.    The purposes of the [year] award are, among other things, to
facilitate the allocation of a portion of your discretionary above-base compensation for [year] to the notional investment opportunities afforded by the Plan, to reward you for your continued Employment and service to the Firm in the future and your
compliance with the Firm s policies (including the Code of Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business
interests, and to ensure an orderly transition of responsibilities. In view of these purposes, you will earn [each portion of] your [year] award only if you (1) remain in continuous Employment through the [applicable] Scheduled Vesting Date
(subject to limited exceptions set forth below), (2) do not engage in any activity that is a cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c) below   and   (3) satisfy obligations you owe to the Firm as set forth in Section 11 below.
Even if your award has vested, you will have no right to your award if a cancellation event occurs under the circumstances set forth in Section 9(c) below. As Morgan Stanley deems appropriate, Morgan Stanley will require you to provide a written
certification or other evidence, from time to time in its sole discretion, to confirm that no cancellation event has occurred, including upon a termination of Employment and/or during a specified period of time prior to the [applicable] Scheduled
Distribution Date. If you fail to provide any required certification or other evidence, Morgan Stanley will cancel your award. It is your responsibility to provide the Executive Compensation Department with your up-to-date contact information.  
      2  

Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text have the
meanings set forth in Section 18 below. Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text or in Section 18 below have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  

1.  
   Your award generally .        (a)    Applicable Account Value.   This
Award Certificate uses the term  Applicable Account Value  to refer to your [year] award under the Plan and the notional return (positive or negative) thereon based on the performance of the Notional Investments to which your Account is
notionally allocated. If you receive another award under the Plan (for example, an award for a future year), your total Account Value under the Plan will include the Applicable Account Value of your [year] award and the applicable Account Value of
such other award(s).     (b)    Notional allocation of Account.   The notional allocation of your Applicable Account Value is
subject to the ultimate discretion of the Firm and is made exclusively for the purpose of determining your Applicable Account Value from time to time in accordance with the Plan. You may notionally allocate your Applicable Account Value to any one
fund, or any combination of funds, offered as Notional Investments under the Plan with respect to your [year] award.      

2.  
   Vesting schedule and payment .        (a)    Vesting schedule.   Except
as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your Applicable Account Value will vest on the Scheduled Vesting Date[(s)]. 1  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your
Applicable Account Value will vest only if you continue to provide future services to the Firm by remaining in continuous Employment through the [applicable] Scheduled Vesting Date and providing value added services to the Firm during this
timeframe. The special vesting terms set forth in Sections 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Award Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by reason of your death or Disability, (ii) upon your Full Career Retirement, (iii) if the Firm
terminates your employment in an involuntary termination under the circumstances described in Section 5, (iv) upon a Governmental Service Termination or (v) upon a Qualifying Termination. The vested portion of your Applicable Account Value
remains subject to the cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate.     (b)
   Payment   .  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your Applicable Account Value will, to the extent vested, be paid in cash on the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date[(s)] 2 ;  provided  that, subject to Section 2(d), your Applicable Account Value may be paid to you following the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date on the  

1   
 The vesting schedule and related vesting date(s) presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The vesting schedule and related vesting dates(s) applicable to awards may vary.    

2   
 The distribution schedule and related distribution date(s) presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The distribution schedule and related distribution dates(s) applicable to awards may vary.
   
      3  

next administratively practicable payroll date. The special payment provisions set forth in Sections 4(a), 4(b), 6 and 7 of this Award Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by
reason of your death or you die after termination of your Employment, (ii) upon your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set
forth in Section 6(b) or (iii) upon a Qualifying Termination. All payments are subject to applicable withholdings and deductions.  
  (c)    Accelerated payment   .  Morgan Stanley shall have no right to accelerate the payment of any portion of your
Applicable Account Value, except to the extent that such acceleration is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not result in your being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the distribution of
your Applicable Account Value or your incurring additional tax or interest under Section 409A. If any portion of your Applicable Account Value is paid prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date pursuant to this Section 2(c), Morgan
Stanley may condition such payment on your agreement that if you engage in any activity constituting a cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c) within the applicable period of time that would have resulted in cancellation of all or a portion of
your Applicable Account Value (had it not been paid pursuant to this Section 2(c)), you will be required to repay to Morgan Stanley an amount equal to the payment you received (before taking account of any withholding) in respect of the portion of
your Applicable Account Value that would have been canceled upon the occurrence of such cancellation event, plus interest on such amount at the average rate of interest Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions during the
period from the date such portion of your Applicable Account Value was paid through the date preceding the repayment date.     (d)
   Rule of construction for timing of payment   .  Whenever this Award Certificate provides for all or a portion of your Applicable Account Value to be paid on a Scheduled Distribution Date or upon a different specified event or
date, such payment will be considered to have been timely made, and neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages based on a delay in the payment of your Applicable Account Value, and the
Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate) in respect of any such delay, as long as payment is made by December 31st of the year in which occurs the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date or such
other specified event or date or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following such specified event or date. Similarly, neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages,
and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate), based on any acceleration of the payment of your Applicable Account Value pursuant to Section 2(c).  
      4  

3.  
   Special provision for certain employees .       Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this Award Certificate, if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its executive officers at the time provided for the payment of the vested portion of your Applicable Account Value and determines that your compensation may not be fully deductible
by virtue of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, Morgan Stanley shall delay payment of the nondeductible portion of your compensation, including delaying payment of your Applicable Account Value to the extent nondeductible, unless the
Administrator, in its sole discretion, determines not to delay such payment. This delay will continue until your Separation from Service or, to the extent permitted under Section 409A, the end of the first earlier taxable year of the Firm as of
the last day of which you are no longer an executive officer (subject to earlier payment in the event of your death as described below).      

4.  
   Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement .       The following special vesting and
payment terms apply to your award:     (a)    Death during Employment   .  If your Employment terminates due to death,
any unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will vest on the date of your death. Your Applicable Account Value will be paid to the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to Section 12 or the legal representative of your estate, as
applicable, upon your death,  provided  that your estate or beneficiary notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death. After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 9(c) will no longer apply.  
  (b)    Death after termination of Employment   .  If you die after the termination of your Employment but prior to the
[applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date, the vested portion of your Applicable Account Value that you held at the time of your death will be paid to the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to Section 12 or the legal representative of your
estate, as applicable, upon your death,  provided  that your estate or beneficiary notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death. After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 9(c) will no longer
apply.     (c)    Disability or Full Career Retirement   .  If your Employment terminates due to Disability or in a Full
Career Retirement, any unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will vest on the date your Employment terminates. Your Applicable Account Value will be paid on the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date. The cancellation and withholding
provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date.      

5.  
   Involuntary termination by the Firm .       If the Firm terminates your employment
under circumstances not involving any cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c), the unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will vest on the date your employment with the Firm terminates and your Applicable Account Value will be paid
on the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date,  provided  that you sign an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm. If you do not sign such an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm within the timeframe set by the Firm in
connection with your  
      5  

involuntary termination as described in this Section 5, any portion of your Applicable Account Value that was unvested immediately prior to your termination shall be canceled. The cancellation
and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date.      

6.  
   Governmental Service .        (a)    General treatment of awards upon
Governmental Service Termination   .  If your Employment terminates in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c), then,  provided  that you sign an agreement satisfactory to
the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 6(c), any unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will vest on the date of your Governmental Service Termination. Your vested Applicable Account Value will be paid on the date
of your Governmental Service Termination.     (b)    General treatment of vested awards upon acceptance of employment at a
Governmental Employer following termination of Employment   .  If your Employment terminates other than in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c) and, following your termination
of Employment, you accept employment with a Governmental Employer, then,  provided  that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 6(c), the vested portion of your Applicable Account Value
will be paid upon your commencement of such employment,  provided  you present the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment the divestiture of your continued interest in your Applicable Account Value is
reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer.  
  (c)    Repayment obligation   .  If any activity or event constituting a cancellation event set forth in Section 9(c)
occurs within the applicable period of time that would have resulted in cancellation of all or a portion of your Applicable Account Value had it not been paid pursuant to Sections 6(a) or 6(b) above, you will be required to repay to Morgan Stanley
the amount distributed to you pursuant to Sections 6(a) or 6(b) above that would have been canceled upon the occurrence of such cancellation event (before taking account of any withholding), plus interest on such amount at the average rate of
interest Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions during the period from the date of such payment through the date preceding the repayment date.      

7.  
   Qualifying Termination .       If your employment terminates in a Qualifying
Termination, any unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will vest, cancellation provisions will lapse, and, subject to Section 8, your Applicable Account Value will be paid upon your Qualifying Termination.  
      6  

8.  
   Specified employees .       Notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate,
if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its  specified employees  as defined in Section 409A at the time of your Separation from Service, payment of the portion of your Applicable Account Value that is  nonqualified deferred
compensation  for purposes of Section 409A that would otherwise be made upon your Separation from Service (including, without limitation, any payments that were delayed due to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as provided
in Section 3, and any portion of your Applicable Account Value payable upon your Qualifying Termination, as provided in Section 7) will be delayed until the first business day following the date that is six months after your Separation from Service;
 provided ,  however , that in the event that your death, your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set forth in Section
6(b) occurs at any time after the Date of the Award, payment will be made in accordance with Section 4(a), 4(b) or 6, as applicable.      

9.  
   Cancellation of Applicable Account Value under certain circumstances .        (a)
   Cancellation of unvested Applicable Account Value   .  Any unvested portion of your Applicable Account Value will be canceled if your Employment terminates for any reason other than death, Disability, a Full Career Retirement,
an involuntary termination by the Firm described in Section 5, a Governmental Service Termination or a Qualifying Termination.     (b)
   General treatment of vested Applicable Account Value.   Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, the vested portion of your Applicable Account Value will be paid on the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date. The
cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date.  
  (c)    Cancellation of Applicable Account Value under certain
circumstances  . 3  The cancellation events set forth in this Section 9(c) are designed, among other things, to incentivize compliance with the Firm s policies (including the Code of
Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business interests, and to ensure an orderly transition of
responsibilities. This Section 9(c) shall apply notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate (except where sections in this Award Certificate specifically provide that the cancellation events set forth in this Section 9(c) no
longer apply).    Your Applicable Account Value, even if vested, is not earned until the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date (and until
you satisfy all obligations you owe to the Firm as set forth in Section 11 below) and, unless prohibited by applicable law, will be canceled prior to the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date in any of the circumstances set forth below in this
Section 9(c). The Firm may retain custody of your Applicable Account Value following the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date pending any investigation or other review that impacts the determination as to whether your Applicable Account Value is
cancellable under the circumstances set forth below and, in such an instance, your Applicable Account Value shall be forfeited in the event the Firm determines that the Applicable Account Value was cancellable.  

3   
 The cancellation provisions presented in Section 9(c) of this form of Award Certificate and any corresponding definitions are indicative. The cancellation provisions and corresponding definitions applicable to
awards may vary.    
      7  

(1)  Competitive Activity   .  If, prior to the [applicable]
Scheduled Distribution Date, you engage in Competitive Activity in connection with or following your resignation of Employment, then your entire unpaid Applicable Account Value will be canceled immediately, subject to applicable law.  
  (2)  Other Events   .  If any of the following events occur at any time before the [applicable] Scheduled
Distribution Date, your entire unpaid Applicable Account Value (whether or not vested) will be canceled immediately, subject to applicable law:  
 (i) Your Employment is terminated for Cause or you engage in conduct constituting Cause (either during or following Employment
and whether or not your Employment has been terminated as of the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date);    (ii) Following
the termination of your Employment, the Firm determines that your Employment could have been terminated for Cause [(for these purposes,  Cause  will be determined without giving consideration to any  cure  period included in the
definition of  Cause     (iii) You disclose Confidential and Proprietary Information to any unauthorized person
outside the Firm, or use or attempt to use Confidential and Proprietary Information other than in connection with the business of the Firm; or you fail to comply with your obligations (either during or after your Employment) under the Firm s
Code of Conduct (and any applicable supplements), or otherwise existing between you and the Firm, relating to Confidential and Proprietary Information or an assignment, procurement or enforcement of rights in Confidential and Proprietary
Information;    (iv) You engage in a Wrongful Solicitation;  
 (v) You make any [Unauthorized Comments] [Unauthorized Disclosures or Defamatory or Disparaging Comments about the Firm];  
 (vi) You fail or refuse, following your termination of Employment, to cooperate with or assist the Firm in a timely manner in
connection with any investigation, regulatory matter, lawsuit or arbitration in which the Firm is a subject, target or party and as to which you may have pertinent information; or  
 (vii) You resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation
consistent with the notice period requirements undertaken by you in connection with your employment offer letter, Sign-On or Notice   Non-Solicitation Agreement or any other contractual obligation in connection with the terms and conditions
of your employment, or, in the event no such prior contractual notice period requirements exist, you resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation of at least thirty
(30) days.  
      8  

(3)  Clawback Cancellation Events   .   
 (i) Your entire Applicable Account Value (whether or not vested) will be canceled in full, or in the case of clause
(c) below, in full or in part, subject to applicable law, if at any time before the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date      

(A) 
 You take any action, or you fail to take any action (including with respect to direct supervisory responsibilities), where such action or omission:    

(a) 
 causes a restatement of the Firm s consolidated financial results;        

(b) 
 constitutes a violation by you of the Firm s Global Risk Management Principles, Policies and Standards (where prior authorization and approval of appropriate senior management was not obtained) whether such action
results in a favorable or unfavorable impact to the Firm s consolidated financial results; or        

(c) 
 causes a loss in the current year on a trade or transaction originating in the current year or in any prior year for which revenue was recognized and which was a factor in your award determination, and violated internal
control policies that resulted from your:        

(i) 
 violation of business unit, product or desk specific risk parameters;        

(ii) 
 use of an incorrect valuation model, method, or inputs for transactions subject to the  STAR  approval process;        

(iii) 
 failure to perform appropriate due diligence prior to a trade or transaction or failure to provide critical information known at the time of the transaction that might negatively affect the valuation of the transaction;
or        

(iv) 
 failure to timely monitor or escalate to management a loss position pursuant to applicable policies and procedures; or    
      9  

(B) [The Firm and/or relevant business unit suffers a material downturn in its
financial performance or the Firm and/or relevant business unit suffers a material failure of risk management.]    In the
event that the Firm determines, in its sole discretion, that your action or omission is as described in clause (A)(c) and you do not engage in any other cancellation or clawback event described in this Section 9(c), your [year] award will be reduced
by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the pre-tax loss, and the denominator of which is the total revenue originally recognized by the Firm which was a factor in your award determination.  
 (ii) [With respect to members of the Morgan Stanley Operating Committee as of [December 31 st  preceding the Date of Award], the Compensation Committee may cancel your entire Applicable Account Value (whether or not vested), in full or in part, if the Compensation Committee determines, in its
sole discretion, that at any time before the [applicable] Scheduled Distribution Date you had significant responsibility for a material adverse outcome for the Firm or any of its businesses or functions. The Compensation Committee shall have the
sole authority to interpret this provision and its determinations shall be final and binding on all persons.]     (4)
 [Clawback for Code Staff   .  If you are designated by the Firm as Code Staff for [year], any shares or amounts distributed in respect of your award are subject to repayment, recovery and recapture pursuant to the Morgan Stanley Code
Staff Clawback Policy, as amended from time to time, and any applicable clawback, repayment, recoupment or recovery requirements imposed under applicable laws, rules and regulations.]  

10.  
   Tax and other withholding obligations .       Any vesting, whether on a Scheduled
Vesting Date or some other date, of all or a portion of your Applicable Account Value, and any payment of all or a portion of your Applicable Account Value shall be subject to the Firm s withholding of all required United States federal,
state, local and foreign income and employment/payroll taxes (including Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes). You authorize the Firm to withhold such taxes from any payroll or other payment or compensation to you, including by canceling
or accelerating payment of a portion of your Applicable Account Value in an amount not to exceed such taxes imposed upon such vesting or distribution and any additional taxes imposed as a result of such cancellation or acceleration, and to take such
other action as the Firm may deem advisable to enable it and you to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations, assessments, or other governmental charges, whether of the United States or any other
jurisdiction, relating to the vesting or payment of your Applicable Account Value. However, the Firm may not deduct or withhold such sum from any payroll or any other payment or compensation (including from your Applicable Account Value), except to
the extent it is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the distribution of your Applicable Account Value or to incur interest or additional tax under
Section 409A.  
      10  

11.  
   Obligations you owe to the Firm .       As a condition to the earning, payment or
distribution of your award, the Firm may require you to pay such sum to the Firm as may be necessary to satisfy any obligation that you owe to the Firm. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Certificate, your award, even if vested, is
not earned until after such obligations and any tax withholdings or other deductions required by law are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Morgan Stanley may not reduce the amount of your Applicable Account Value to be distributed to satisfy
obligations that you owe to the Firm except (i) to the extent authorized under Section 10, relating to tax and other withholding obligations or, otherwise, (ii) to the extent such reduction is not prohibited by Section 409A and would
not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the distribution of your Applicable Account Value or to incur additional tax or interest under Section 409A. Morgan Stanley s determination of any
amount that you owe the Firm shall be conclusive.      

12.  
   Nontransferability .       You may not sell, pledge, hypothecate, assign or otherwise
transfer your Applicable Account Value, other than as provided in Section 13 (which allows you to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries in the event of your death) or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This prohibition includes any
assignment or other transfer that purports to occur by operation of law or otherwise. During your lifetime, payments relating to your Applicable Account Value will be made only to you.  
 Your personal representatives, heirs, legatees, beneficiaries, successors and assigns, and those of Morgan Stanley, shall all be bound by, and
shall benefit from, the terms and conditions of your award.      

13.  
   Designation of a beneficiary .       You may make a written designation of beneficiary
or beneficiaries to receive all or part of the amounts to be distributed in respect of your Applicable Account Value in the event of your death. To make a beneficiary designation, you must complete and submit the Beneficiary Designation form on the
Executive Compensation website.    Any portion of your Applicable Account Value that becomes payable upon your death, and as to which a
designation of beneficiary is not in effect, will be distributed to your estate.    If you previously filed a designation of beneficiary
form for your award(s) under the Plan with the Executive Compensation Department, such form will also apply to all of your awards under the Plan, including this [year] award. You may replace or revoke your beneficiary designation at any time. If
there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive your Applicable Account Value, Morgan Stanley may determine in its sole discretion to distribute the amounts in question to your estate. Morgan Stanley s determination
shall be binding and conclusive on all persons and it will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such amounts.  
      11  

(a)    No right to continued
Employment   .  This [year] award is not an employment agreement, and nothing in this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall alter your status as an  at-will  employee of the Firm or
your employment status at a Related Employer. None of this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing your employment by the Firm or a Related Employer, or as giving you any right
to continue in the employ of the Firm or a Related Employer, during any period (including without limitation the period between the Date of the Award and the [applicable] Scheduled Vesting Date or Scheduled Distribution Date, or any portion of any
of these periods), nor shall they be construed as giving you any right to be reemployed by the Firm or a Related Employer following any termination of Employment.  
  (b)    No right to future awards   .  This award, and all other awards under the Plan, are discretionary. This award does
not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive another award under the Plan or any other award under any other incentive compensation plan of Morgan Stanley at any time in the future or in respect of any future period.  
  (c)    No effect on future employment compensation  . Morgan Stanley has made this award to you in its sole discretion. This
award does not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive compensation in any specific amount for any future year, and does not diminish in any way the Firm s discretion to determine the amount, if any, of your compensation. This award
is not part of your base salary or wages and will not be taken into account in determining any other employment-related rights you may have, such as rights to pension or severance pay.  

15.  
   Consents under local law .       Your award is conditioned upon the making of all
filings and the receipt of all consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable local law.      
   Morgan Stanley reserves the right to modify or amend
unilaterally the terms and conditions of your award, without first asking your consent, or to waive any terms and conditions that operate in favor of Morgan Stanley. These amendments may include (but are not limited to) changes that Morgan Stanley
considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in any, or the adoption of any new, Legal Requirement. Morgan Stanley may not modify your award in a manner that would materially impair your rights in your award without your consent;
 provided ,  however , that Morgan Stanley may, but is not required to, without your consent, amend or modify your award in any manner that Morgan Stanley considers necessary or advisable to (i) comply with any Legal Requirement,
(ii) ensure that your award does not result in an excise or other supplemental tax on the Firm under any Legal Requirement, or (iii) ensure that your award is not subject to United States federal, state or local income tax or any
equivalent taxes in  
      12  

territories outside the United States prior to payment or distribution. Morgan Stanley will notify you of any amendment of your award that affects your rights. Any amendment or waiver of a
provision of this Award Certificate (other than any amendment or waiver applicable to all recipients generally), which amendment or waiver operates in your favor or confers a benefit on you, must be in writing and signed by the Chief Human Resources
Officer or the Chief Operating Officer (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective.      
   This Award Certificate and the related legal relations between
you and Morgan Stanley will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts or choice of law, rule or principle that might otherwise refer the interpretation of the award to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction.      
   For purposes of this Award Certificate, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:     (a)     Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.  
  (b)     Cause    means:  
  (1)  any act or omission which constitutes a breach of your obligations to the Firm, including, without limitation,
(A) your failure to comply with any notice or non-solicitation restrictions that may be applicable to you or (B) your failure to comply with the Firm s compliance, ethics or risk management standards, or your failure or refusal to
perform satisfactorily any duties reasonably required of you[, which breach, failure or refusal (if susceptible to cure) is not corrected (other than failure to correct by reason of your incapacity due to physical or mental illness) within ten
(10) business days after written notification thereof to you by the Firm];     (2)  your commission of any
dishonest or fraudulent act, or any other act or omission, which has caused or may reasonably be expected to cause injury to the interest or business reputation of the Firm; or  
  (3)  your violation of any securities, commodities or banking laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such
laws, or rules or regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Firm is a member or of any policy of the Firm relating to compliance with any of the foregoing;  
  provided,  that an act or omission shall constitute  Cause  for purposes of this definition if the Firm determines, in its
sole discretion, that such action or omission is described in Section 9(c)(3)(i)(A)(c) and is deliberate, intentional or willful.  
      13  

(c)  A    Change in Control    shall be deemed to have occurred if any
of the following conditions shall have been satisfied:     (1)  any one person or more than one person acting as a group
(as determined under Section 409A), other than (A) any employee plan established by Morgan Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) Morgan Stanley or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act),
(C) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (D) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of Morgan Stanley in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of
Morgan Stanley, is or becomes, during any 12-month period, the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person(s) any securities acquired directly from
Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of the total voting power of the stock of Morgan Stanley;  provided ,  however ,
that the provisions of this subsection (1) are not intended to apply to or include as a Change in Control any transaction that is specifically excepted from the definition of Change in Control under subsection (3) below;  
  (2)  a change in the composition of the Board such that, during any 12-month period, the individuals who, as of the
beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the    Existing Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least 50% of the Board;  provided ,  however , that any individual becoming a member of the Board
subsequent to the beginning of such period whose election, or nomination for election by Morgan Stanley s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors immediately prior to the date of such appointment or election
shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Existing Board;     (3)  the consummation of a merger
or consolidation of Morgan Stanley with any other corporation or other entity, or the issuance of voting securities in connection with a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Morgan Stanley) pursuant to
applicable stock exchange requirements;  provided  that immediately following such merger or consolidation the voting securities of Morgan Stanley outstanding immediately prior thereto do not continue to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation or parent entity thereof) 50% or more of the total voting power of Morgan Stanley stock (or if Morgan Stanley is not the surviving
entity of such merger or consolidation, 50% or more of the total voting power of the stock of such surviving entity or parent entity thereof); and  provided further  that a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of
Morgan Stanley (or similar transaction) in which no person (as determined under Section 409A) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by
such person any securities acquired directly from Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of
Morgan Stanley common stock or the combined voting power of Morgan Stanley s then outstanding voting securities shall not be considered a Change in Control; or  
      14  

(4)  the complete liquidation of Morgan Stanley or the sale or disposition
by Morgan Stanley of all or substantially all of Morgan Stanley s assets in which any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under Section 409A) acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on
the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from Morgan Stanley that have a total gross fair market value equal to more than 50% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately
prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred
if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially
the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns substantially all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions and (y) no event or circumstances described in any of clauses (1) through
(4) above shall constitute a Change in Control unless such event or circumstances also constitute a change in the ownership or effective control of Morgan Stanley, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of Morgan Stanley s assets, as
defined in Section 409A. In addition, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred upon the acquisition of additional control of Morgan Stanley by any one person or more than one person acting as a group that is considered to
effectively control Morgan Stanley.    For purposes of the provisions of this Award Certificate, terms used in the definition of a Change in
Control shall be as defined or interpreted pursuant to Section 409A.     (d)     Competitive Activity   
means:     (1)  becoming, or entering into any arrangement as, an employee, officer, partner, member, proprietor,
director, independent contractor, consultant, advisor, representative or agent of, or serving in any similar position or capacity with, a Competitor, where you will be responsible for providing, or managing or supervising others who are providing,
services (x) that are similar or substantially related to the services that you provided to the Firm, or (y) that you had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for at the Firm, or (z) that call for the
application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as those utilized by you in your services for the Firm, in each such case, at any time during the year preceding the termination of your employment with the Firm; or  
  (2)  either alone or in concert with others, forming, or acquiring a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting interest or
profit participation in, a Competitor.     (e)     Competitor    means any corporation, partnership or other entity
that competes, or that owns a significant interest in any corporation, partnership or other entity that competes, with any business activity the Firm engages in, or that you reasonably knew or should have known that the Firm was planning to engage
in, at the time of the termination of your Employment.  
      15  

(f)     Confidential and Proprietary Information    means any
information that is classified as confidential in the Firm s Global Policy on Confidential Information or that may have intrinsic value to the Firm, the Firm s clients or other parties with which the Firm has a relationship, or that may
provide the Firm with a competitive advantage, including, without limitation, any trade secrets; inventions (whether or not patentable); formulas; flow charts; computer programs; access codes or other systems information; algorithms; technology and
business processes; business, product or marketing plans; sales and other forecasts; financial information; client lists or other intellectual property; information relating to compensation and benefits; and public information that becomes
proprietary as a result of the Firm s compilation of that information for use in its business,  provided  that such Confidential and Proprietary Information does not include any information which is available for use by the general public
or is generally available for use within the relevant business or industry other than as a result of your action. Confidential and Proprietary Information may be in any medium or form, including, without limitation, physical documents, computer
files or discs, electronic communications, videotapes, audiotapes, and oral communications.     (g)     Date of the
Award    means [insert grant date, which typically will coincide approximately with the end of the year in respect of which the award is made].  
  (h)  [You will be deemed to have made    Defamatory or Disparaging Comments    about the Firm if, at any time, you
make, publish, or issue, or cause to be made, published or issued, in any medium whatsoever to any person or entity external to the Firm, any derogatory, defamatory or disparaging statement regarding the Firm, its businesses or strategic plans,
products, practices, policies, personnel or any other Firm matter. Nothing contained herein is intended to prevent you from testifying truthfully or making truthful statements or submissions in litigation or other legal, administrative or regulatory
proceedings or internal investigations.]     (i)     Disability    means any condition that would qualify for a
benefit under any group long-term disability plan maintained by the Firm and applicable to you.     (j)
    Employed    and    Employment    refer to employment with the Firm and/or Related Employment.  
  (k)  The    Firm    means Morgan Stanley (including any successor thereto) together with its subsidiaries and
affiliates. For purposes of the definitions of  Cause,   Confidential and Proprietary Information,  [ Defamatory or Disparaging Comments, ] [ Unauthorized Comments, ] [ Unauthorized Disclosures ] and
 Wrongful Solicitation  set forth in this Award Certificate and Section 9(c)(2)(vi) of this Award Certificate, references to the  Firm  shall refer severally to the Firm as defined in the preceding sentence and your Related
Employer, if any. For purposes of the cancellation provisions set forth in this Award Certificate relating to disclosure or use of Confidential and Proprietary Information, references to the  Firm  shall refer to the Firm as defined in the
second preceding sentence or your Related Employer, as applicable.  
      16  

(l)     Full Career Retirement    means the termination of your
Employment by you or by the Firm for any reason other than under circumstances involving any cancellation event described in Section 9(c), and other than due to your death or Disability, a Governmental Service Termination or pursuant to a Qualifying
Termination, if you meet any of the following criteria as of your termination date [and you have provided the Firm at least 12 months  advance notice of such termination]:  
 (i) you have attained age 50 and completed at least 12 years of service as a [    ] 4  of the Firm or equivalent officer title; or    (ii) you have attained age
50 and completed at least 15 years of service as an officer of the Firm at the level of [    ] 5  or above; or  
 (iii) you have completed at least 20 years of service with the Firm; or  
 (iv) you have attained age 55 and have completed at least 5 years of service with the Firm and the sum of your age and years of
service equals or exceeds 65. 6     For the purposes of the foregoing
definition, service with the Firm will include any period of service with the following entities and any of their predecessors:  
 1. AB Asesores (   ABS   ) prior to its acquisition by the Firm ( provided  that only years of service
as a partner of ABS shall count towards years of service as an officer);    2. Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and its subsidiaries
(   MS Group   ) prior to the merger with and into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;    3. Miller
Anderson   Sherrerd, L.L.P. prior to its acquisition by MS Group;    4. Van Kampen Investments Inc. and its
subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by MS Group;    5. FrontPoint Partners LLC and its subsidiaries prior to its
acquisition by the Firm; and      

4   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    

5   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    

6   
 Age and service conditions specified in clauses (1) through (4) are indicative and may vary from year to year and for awards granted to certain employees.    
      17  

6. Dean Witter, Discover   Co. and its subsidiaries
(   DWD   ) prior to the merger of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. with and into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;  
  provided  that, in the case of an employee who has transferred employment from DWD to MS Group or vice versa, a former
employee of DWD will receive credit for employment with DWD only if he or she transferred directly from DWD to Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated or its affiliates subsequent to February 5, 1997, and a former employee of MS Group will
receive credit for employment with MS Group only if he or she transferred directly from MS Group to Morgan Stanley DW Inc. or its affiliates subsequent to February 5, 1997.  
  (m)     Governmental Employer    means a governmental department or agency, self-regulatory agency or other public
service employer.     (n)     Governmental Service Termination    means the termination of your Employment due to
your commencement of employment at a Governmental Employer;  provided  that you have presented the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such new employment, the divestiture of your continued interest in your
Applicable Account Value is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer.  
  (o)     Internal Revenue Code    means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules,
regulations and guidance thereunder.     (p)     Legal Requirement    means any law, regulation, ruling, judicial
decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement.     (q)     Management Committee   
means the Morgan Stanley Management Committee and any successor or equivalent committee.     (r)     Qualifying
Termination    means your Separation from Service within eighteen (18) months following a Change in Control under either of the following circumstances: (a) the Firm terminates your employment under circumstances not involving
any cancellation event; or (b) you resign from the Firm due to (i) a materially adverse alteration in your position or in the nature or status of your responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, as
determined by the Administrator, or (ii) the Firm requiring your principal place of employment to be located more than 75 miles from the location where you were principally employed at the time of the Change in Control (except for required
travel on the Firm s business to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change in Control).  
  (s)     Related Employment    means your employment with an employer other than the Firm (such employer, herein
referred to as a  Related Employer ),  provided  that: (i) you undertake such employment at the written request or with the written consent of Morgan Stanley s Chief Human Resources Officer (or if such position no longer
exists, the holder of an equivalent position); (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment you were an employee of the Firm or were engaged in Related Employment (as defined herein); and (iii) such
 
      18  

employment is recognized by the Firm in its discretion as Related Employment; and,  provided further,  that the Firm may (1) determine at any time in its sole discretion that employment
that was recognized by the Firm as Related Employment no longer qualifies as Related Employment, and (2) condition the designation and benefits of Related Employment on such terms and conditions as the Firm may determine in its sole discretion;
and  provided further , the Firm will not provide for Related Employment except to the extent such treatment is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior
to the distribution of your Applicable Account Value or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A. The designation of employment as Related Employment does not give rise to an employment relationship between you and the Firm, or
otherwise modify your and the Firm s respective rights and obligations.     (t)     Scheduled Distribution
Date    means                   . 7   
  (u)     Scheduled Vesting Date    means
                  . 8   
  (v)     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and any regulations thereunder.  
  (w)     Separation from Service    means a separation from service with the Firm for purposes of Section 409A
determined using the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) or any successor regulation thereto. For purposes of this definition, Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries and affiliates include (and are limited to) any
corporation that is in the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) as Morgan Stanley and any trade or business that is under common control with Morgan Stanley (within the
meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code), determined in each case in accordance with the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).  
  (x)  [You will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Comments    about the Firm if, while Employed or following the
termination of your Employment, you make, directly or indirectly, any negative, derogatory, disparaging or defamatory comment, whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity or to any
general public media in any form (including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape, audio tape, computer/Internet format or any other medium) that concerns directly or indirectly the Firm, its
business or operations, or any of its current or former agents, employees, officers, directors, customers or clients.]     (y)  [You
will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Disclosures    about the Firm if, while Employed or following the termination of your Employment, without having first received written authorization from the Firm, you disclose, or
participate in the disclosure of or allow disclosure of, any information about the Firm or its present or former clients, customers,  

7   
 May consist of one or more dates.    

8   
 May consist of one or more dates.    
      19  

executives, officers, directors, or other employees or Board members, or its business or operations, or legal matters involving the Firm and resolution or settlement thereof, or any aspects of
your Employment with the Firm or termination of such Employment (which, for the avoidance of doubt, does not prevent you from confirming your employment status with the Firm), whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author,
producer or similar person or entity or to any general public media in any form (including without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape, television or other broadcasts, audio tape, electronic/Internet
or blog format or any other medium).]     (z)  A    Wrongful Solicitation    occurs upon either of the following
events:     (1)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination
of your Employment, or within 180 days after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you hire or solicit, recruit,
induce, entice, influence or encourage any Firm employee to leave the Firm or become hired or engaged by another firm;  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to employees with whom you worked or had professional or
business contact, or who worked in or with your business unit, during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your Employment; or  
  (2)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your
Employment, or within 90 days (180 days if you are a member of the Management Committee at the time of notice of termination) after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person,
corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you solicit or entice away or in any manner attempt to persuade any client or customer, or prospective client or customer, of the Firm (i) to discontinue or diminish his, her or
its relationship or prospective relationship with the Firm or (ii) to otherwise provide his, her or its business to any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity which engages in any line of business in which the Firm is engaged
(other than the Firm);  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to clients or customers, or prospective clients or customers, that you worked for on an actual or prospective project or assignment during any notice period
applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your Employment.  
      20  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Morgan Stanley has duly executed and delivered this Award Certificate
as of the Date of the Award.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

/s/ 

[Name]   
 
  [Title]   

21  

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 6
 d48186dex1040.htm
 EX-10.40

EX-10.40 

EXHIBIT 10.40   
  M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  2007 E QUITY  I NCENTIVE  C OMPENSATION  P LAN    
  [YEAR] LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM AWARD   
  AWARD CERTIFICATE   

T ABLE   OF  C ONTENTS   FOR 
A WARD  C ERTIFICATE        

M ORGAN  S TANLEY    
  [Y EAR ] L ONG -T ERM  I NCENTIVE  P ROGRAM  A WARD    
  A WARD  C ERTIFICATE    
 Morgan Stanley has awarded you a [year] long-term incentive program award (   LTIP Award   ) as an incentive for you to
remain in Employment and provide services to the Firm. This Award Certificate sets forth the general terms and conditions of your [year] LTIP Award. Your [year] LTIP Award consists of a Target Award of performance stock units. The number of
performance stock units comprising your Target Award has been communicated to you independently.    If you are employed outside the United
States, you will also receive an    International Supplement    that contains supplemental terms and conditions for your [year] LTIP Award. You should read this Award Certificate in conjunction with the International Supplement,
if applicable, in order to understand the terms and conditions of your [year] LTIP Award.    Your LTIP Award is made pursuant to the Plan.
References to  performance stock units  and  units  (which terms are used interchangeably) in this Award Certificate mean only those performance stock units included in your [year] LTIP Award, and the terms and conditions herein
apply only to such award. If you receive any other award under the Plan or another equity compensation plan, it will be governed by the terms and conditions of the applicable award documentation, which may be different from those herein.  
 The purpose of your LTIP Award is, among other things, to align your interests with the interests of the Firm and Morgan Stanley s
stockholders, to reward you for your continued Employment and service to the Firm in the future and your compliance with the Firm s policies (including the Code of Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential
and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business interests, and to ensure an orderly transition of responsibilities. In view of these purposes, the number of performance stock units that
you earn will depend on the Company s performance during the Performance Period. Moreover, you will earn your LTIP Award only if you (1) remain in continuous Employment through the Scheduled Vesting Date (subject to limited exceptions set
forth below), (2) do not engage in any activity that is a cancellation event set forth in Section 11(c) below   and   (3) satisfy obligations you owe to the Firm as set forth in Section 13 below. Even if your LTIP Award
has vested, you will have no right to your award if a cancellation event occurs under the circumstances set forth in Section 11(c) below. As Morgan Stanley deems appropriate, Morgan Stanley will require you to provide a written certification or
other evidence, from time to time in its sole discretion, to confirm that no cancellation event has occurred, including upon a termination of Employment and/or during a specified period of time prior to the Scheduled Conversion Date. If you fail to
timely provide any required certification or other evidence, Morgan Stanley will cancel your award. It is your responsibility to provide the Executive Compensation Department with your up-to-date contact information.  
      2  

Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text have the
meanings set forth in Section 23 below. Capitalized terms used in this Award Certificate that are not defined in the text or in Section 23 below have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  

1.  
   Performance stock units generally .       Each performance stock unit included in your
LTIP Award corresponds to one share of Morgan Stanley common stock. A performance stock unit constitutes a contingent and unsecured promise of Morgan Stanley to pay you one share of Morgan Stanley common stock on the conversion date for the unit. As
the holder of the LTIP Award, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Morgan Stanley. You will not be a stockholder with respect to the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your performance stock units unless
and until such units convert to shares.      

2.  
   Performance measures .       The portion, if any, of your LTIP Award that you earn will
be based on Morgan Stanley performance against the performance measures set forth in this Section 2 and the other terms and conditions of this Award Certificate, and may vary from zero to 1.5 times the number of performance stock units included
in your Target Award.     (a)    Morgan Stanley s Return on Equity   .  One-half of your Target
Award will be earned based on MS ROE. The number of performance stock units that you earn based on MS ROE (subject to vesting and the other terms and conditions of your award) will be determined by multiplying the number of units representing
one-half of the Target Award by a multiplier determined as follows:      
   If MS ROE is between two thresholds, then the multiplier will be obtained by straight-line interpolation
between the two thresholds. For example, if MS ROE is 9.5%, the multiplier would be 0.95. If MS ROE is less than 5%, you will not earn any portion of your LTIP Award as a result of the MS ROE measure, and one-half of your Target Award will be
canceled.  
      3  

(b)    Relative Total Shareholder Return   .  One-half of
your Target Award will be earned based on Morgan Stanley s Total Shareholder Return as compared to the Total Shareholder Return of each member of the Index Group. The number of performance stock units that you earn based on Morgan
Stanley s TSR as compared to the TSR of the Index Group (subject to vesting and the other terms and conditions of your award) will be determined by (i) subtracting the Index Group TSR from Morgan Stanley s TSR (   Relative
TSR   ) and (ii) multiplying the number of units representing one-half of your Target Award by a multiplier determined as follows:      
    provided that , in no event shall the Relative TSR multiplier exceed 1.00 if Morgan Stanley s TSR
for the Performance Period is negative.    If the Relative TSR is between the thresholds, then the multiplier will be obtained by
straight-line interpolation between the two points. For example, if Morgan Stanley s TSR is 20% and the Index Group s TSR is 10%, the Relative TSR would be 10% and the multiplier would 1.20.  
  (c)    Adjustments   .  If an event occurs with respect to Morgan Stanley that renders, in the sole
determination of the Committee, any of the performance measures set forth in Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) to no longer be appropriate, then the Committee may adjust such measures, as it deems appropriate in its sole discretion, to carry
out the intent of the original terms of this award.      

3.  
   Vesting and conversion.         (a)    Vesting
schedule   .  1  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, you will vest in the portion of your LTIP Award that is earned in accordance with Section 2 on the Scheduled
Vesting Date. Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, such portion of your LTIP Award will vest only if you continue to provide future services to the Firm by remaining in continuous Employment through the Scheduled Vesting Date and
providing value added services to the Firm during this timeframe. The special vesting terms set forth in Sections 6, 7 and 8 of this Award Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by reason of your death or Disability, (ii) upon
your Full Career Retirement, (iii) if the Firm terminates your employment in an involuntary termination under the circumstances described in Section 7 or (iv) upon a Governmental Service Termination. Any vested portion of your LTIP
Award remains subject to the cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate.     (b)
   Conversion   .  2  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Certificate, your LTIP Award, to the extent earned and vested, will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley  

1   
 The vesting schedule and vesting date presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The vesting schedule and vesting date applicable to awards may vary.    

2   
 The conversion schedule and conversion date presented in this form of Award Certificate are indicative. The conversion schedule and conversion date applicable to awards may vary.    
      4  

common stock on the Scheduled Conversion Date, with any fractional shares to be distributed in cash. The special conversion provisions set forth in Sections 6(a), 6(b) and 8 of this Award
Certificate apply (i) if your Employment terminates by reason of your death or you die after termination of your Employment or (ii) upon your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental Employer following your
termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set forth in Section 8(b).    No portion of your LTIP Award
will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock following the end of the Performance Period until the Committee certifies the extent to which the performance criteria set forth in Section 2 have been satisfied.  
 The shares delivered upon conversion of your LTIP Award pursuant to this Section 3(b) will not be subject to any transfer
restrictions, other than those that may arise under the securities laws, the Firm s policies or Section 13 below, or to cancellation under the circumstances set forth in Section 11(c), but will be subject to repayment as set forth in
Section 3(c). 3      (c)    Repayment/Recapture   . 
In the event and to the extent the Committee reasonably determines that the performance certified by the Committee, and on the basis of which your LTIP Award was converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock, was based on materially inaccurate
financial statements or other performance metric criteria, you will be obligated to repay to the Firm:     (1)  the
number of shares that were delivered upon conversion of your LTIP Award, less the number of shares that would have been delivered had your LTIP Award converted to shares based on accurate financial statements or other performance metric criteria
(such number of shares determined in each case by the Committee and before satisfaction of tax or other withholding obligations pursuant to Section 12) (the   Repayment Shares    provided ,  however , that to the
extent that any of the Repayment Shares have been transferred, you shall repay to the Firm an amount equal to the number of Repayment Shares so transferred multiplied by the fair market value, determined using a valuation methodology established by
Morgan Stanley, of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your LTIP Award converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock; plus  
  (2)  any dividend equivalents that were paid on the Repayment Shares when your LTIP Award converted to shares; plus  
  (3)  interest on the amounts described in the preceding clauses (1) and (2) at the average rate of interest
Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions during the period from the date of such conversion through the date preceding the repayment date.  

3   
 Certain LTIP Awards may include transfer restrictions for a specified period following the Scheduled Conversion Date.    
      5  

For the avoidance of doubt, your LTIP Award will not be deemed earned if payment
of such award is based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other performance metric criteria.     (d)
   Accelerated conversion   .  Morgan Stanley shall have no right to accelerate the conversion of any portion of your LTIP Award or the payment of any of your dividend equivalents, except to the extent that such acceleration is not
prohibited by Section 409A and would not result in your being required to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before your LTIP Award converts to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or your dividend equivalents are
paid or your incurring additional tax or interest under Section 409A. If your LTIP Award converts to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or any dividend equivalents are paid prior to the Scheduled Conversion Date pursuant to this
Section 3(d), these shares or dividend equivalents may not be transferable and may remain subject to applicable vesting, cancellation and withholding provisions, as determined by Morgan Stanley.  
  (e)    Rule of construction for timing of conversion   .  Whenever this Award Certificate provides for
your LTIP Award to convert to shares, or your dividend equivalents to be paid, on the Scheduled Conversion Date or upon a different specified event or date, such conversion or payment will be considered to have been timely made, and neither you nor
any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any claim against the Firm for damages based on a delay in conversion of your LTIP Award (or delivery of Morgan Stanley shares following conversion) or payment of your dividend equivalents, as
applicable, and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate) in respect of any such delay, as long as conversion or payment, as applicable, is made by December 31st of the year in which occurs the
Scheduled Conversion Date or such other specified event or date or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following such specified event or date. Similarly, neither you nor any of your beneficiaries or your estate shall have any
claim against the Firm for damages, and the Firm shall have no liability to you (or to any of your beneficiaries or your estate), based on any acceleration of the conversion of your LTIP Award or payment of your dividend equivalents pursuant to
Section 3(d), as applicable.      

4.  
   Special provision for certain employees .       Notwithstanding the
other provisions of this Award Certificate, if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its executive officers at the time provided for the conversion of any vested portion of your LTIP Award and determines that your compensation may not be fully
deductible by virtue of Section 162(m), Morgan Stanley shall delay payment of the nondeductible portion of your compensation, including delaying, to the extent nondeductible, conversion of any vested portion of your LTIP Award and payment of
the dividend equivalents, unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines not to delay such conversion and payment. This delay will continue until your Separation from Service or, to the extent permitted under Section 409A, the end of
the first earlier taxable year of the Firm as of the last day of which you are no longer an executive officer (subject to earlier conversion in the event of your death as described below).  
      6  

5.  
   Dividend equivalent payments .       If Morgan Stanley pays a regular or ordinary
dividend on its common stock, you will be credited with a dividend equivalent with respect to your LTIP Award to the extent it is outstanding on the dividend record date in an amount equal to the amount of the dividend that would have been paid on a
number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your Target Award. Morgan Stanley will credit the dividend equivalents when it pays the corresponding dividend on its common stock. Your dividend equivalents will vest and be paid in
cash at the same time as, and subject to the same vesting and cancellation provisions set forth in this Award Certificate with respect to, your LTIP Award ( provided  that, subject to Section 3(e), the dividend equivalents may be paid
following the date on which the LTIP Award converts to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the next administratively practicable payroll date). The amount of dividend equivalents paid to you will be based on the number of performance stock
units that actually convert to shares and will be paid only if your LTIP Award converts to shares.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the
event your LTIP Award is canceled in full on or before the Scheduled Conversion Date, all dividend equivalents credited to you in respect of regular or ordinary dividends will be canceled. No dividend equivalents will be paid to you on any portion
of your LTIP Award that is canceled.    The decision to pay a dividend and, if so, the amount of any such dividend, is determined by Morgan
Stanley in its sole discretion.      

6.  
   Death, Disability and Full Career Retirement .       The following special earning,
vesting and payment terms apply to your LTIP Award:     (a)    Death during Employment   .  If you die
while Employed, then the number of performance stock units that will vest, and the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to Section 15 or the legal representative of your estate, as
applicable, will receive as of the date of your death, will be determined by multiplying (i) the number of shares earned based on the performance measures set forth in Section 2 but applied as though the Performance Period ended with the
last Morgan Stanley quarter ending simultaneously with or before the date of your death, for which earnings information for Morgan Stanley has been released as of the date of your death by (ii) the Pro Ration Fraction,  provided  that your
beneficiary or estate notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death;  provided further , that if your death occurs on or following the Scheduled Vesting Date, then your beneficiary or estate, as applicable, will receive
shares (if any) in an amount and at such time that you would have received such shares had your death not occurred. For example, if your death occurs following the end of Morgan Stanley s third quarter (but prior to the end of the fourth
quarter) and earnings information has not been released by Morgan Stanley for such quarter, the performance measures will be applied as though the Performance Period ended with Morgan Stanley s second quarter ( provided  Morgan Stanley has
released earning information for such quarter).  
      7  

After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 11(c)
will no longer apply. The shares delivered upon conversion of your LTIP Award pursuant to this Section 6(a) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions (other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Firm s policies)
but will be subject to repayment as set forth in Section 3(c).     (b)    Death after termination of
Employment   .  If you die following your termination of Employment as a result of your Disability, Full Career Retirement or an involuntary termination not involving any cancellation event and your LTIP Award was not canceled in
connection with your termination or thereafter, then the number of performance stock units that will vest, and the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock the beneficiary you have designated pursuant to Section 15 or the legal
representative of your estate, as applicable, will receive as of the date of your death, will be determined by multiplying (i) the number of shares that would have been delivered to you based on applying the performance measures set forth in
Section 2 as though the Performance Period ended with the last Morgan Stanley quarter ending simultaneously with or before the date of your death for which earnings information for Morgan Stanley has been released as of the date of your death
by (ii) the Pro Ration Fraction determined upon your termination of Employment,  provided  that your beneficiary or estate notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following your death;  provided further,  that if your death
occurs on or following the Scheduled Vesting Date, then your beneficiary or estate, as applicable, will receive shares (if any) in an amount and at such time that you would have received such shares had your death not occurred.  
 After your death, the cancellation provisions set forth in Section 11(c) will no longer apply. The shares delivered upon
conversion of your LTIP Award pursuant to this Section 6(b) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions (other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Firm s policies) but will be subject to repayment as set forth
in Section 3(c).     (c)    Disability   .  If your Employment terminates due to Disability, then,
subject to any transfer restrictions and the cancellation provisions described herein, you will vest in a number of performance stock units, and receive a number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the Scheduled Conversion Date, determined
by multiplying (i) the number of shares that would have been delivered to you, based on the performance measures described in Section 2, had you remained in Employment through the Scheduled Conversion Date, by (ii) the Pro Ration
Fraction. The cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the Scheduled Conversion Date.  
  (d)    Full Career Retirement   .   
  (1)  If your Employment terminates in a termination that satisfies the definition of Full Career Retirement, and other
than due to your death or Governmental Service Termination, then subject to any transfer restrictions and the cancellation provisions described herein, you will vest in a number of performance stock units, and receive a number of shares of Morgan
Stanley common stock on the Scheduled Conversion Date, equal to the number of shares that would have been delivered to you, based on the performance measures  
      8  

set forth in Section 2, had you remained in Employment through the Scheduled Conversion Date. The cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to
apply until the Scheduled Conversion Date.     (2)  If your Employment terminates due to your death or Governmental
Service Termination and such termination satisfies the definition of a Full Career Retirement, then the number of performance stock units that will vest, and the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock you or the beneficiary you have
designated pursuant to Section 15 or the legal representative of your estate, as applicable, will receive as of the date of your death or Governmental Service Termination, as applicable, will be the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common
stock earned based on the performance measures set forth in Section 2 but applied as though the Performance Period ended with the last Morgan Stanley quarter ending simultaneously with or before the date of your death or Governmental Service
Termination, as applicable, for which earnings information for Morgan Stanley has been released as of such date;  provided that , in the case of your death, your beneficiary or estate notifies the Firm of your death within 60 days following
your death and that if your death occurs on or following the Scheduled Vesting Date, then your beneficiary or estate, as applicable, will receive shares (if any) in an amount and at such time that you would have received such shares had your death
not occurred;  provided further , in the case of a Governmental Service Termination, this Section 6(d)(2) shall apply only if you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 8(c).  

7.  
   Involuntary termination by the Firm .       If the Firm terminates your employment
under circumstances not involving any cancellation event set forth in Section 11(c) and you sign an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm, then, subject to any transfer restrictions and the cancellation provisions described herein, you will
vest in a number of performance stock units, and receive a number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock on the Scheduled Conversion Date, determined by multiplying (i) the number of shares that would have been delivered to you, based on the
performance measures set forth in Section 2, had you remained in Employment through the Scheduled Conversion Date, by (ii) the Pro Ration Fraction. If you do not sign such an agreement and release satisfactory to the Firm within the
timeframe set by the Firm in connection with your involuntary termination as described in this Section 7, any portion of your LTIP Award that was unvested immediately prior to your termination shall be canceled. The cancellation and withholding
provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the Scheduled Conversion Date.      

8.  
   Governmental Service .        (a)    General treatment of
awards upon Governmental Service Termination  . If your Employment terminates in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 11(c), then provided that you sign an agreement satisfactory
to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 8(c), you will vest in a number of performance stock units, and receive as of the date of your Governmental Service Termination a number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock,
determined by multiplying (i) the number of shares earned based on the performance measures set forth in Section 2 but  
      9  

applied as though the Performance Period ended with the last Morgan Stanley quarter ending simultaneously with or before the effective date of your Governmental Service Termination, for which
earnings information for Morgan Stanley has been released as of the date of your Governmental Service Termination by (ii) the Pro Ration Fraction.  
 (b)   General treatment of vested awards upon acceptance of employment at a Governmental Employer following termination of
Employment   .  If (i) your Employment terminates other than in a Governmental Service Termination and not involving a cancellation event set forth in Section 11(c), (ii) your LTIP Award was not canceled in connection with
your termination or thereafter, (iii) following your termination of Employment, you accept employment with a Governmental Employer, and (iv) you present the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment
the divestiture of your continued interest in Morgan Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of
interest law applicable to you at such Governmental Employer, then,  provided  that you sign an agreement satisfactory to the Firm relating to your obligations pursuant to Section 8(c), you will receive, upon your commencement of
employment with such Governmental Employer, the number of shares determined by multiplying (x) the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock earned based on the performance measures set forth in Section 2 but applied as though the
Performance Period ended with the last Morgan Stanley quarter ending simultaneously with or before your acceptance of employment at a Governmental Employer, for which earnings information for Morgan Stanley has been released as of such date by
(y) the Pro Ration Fraction.     (c)    Repayment obligation   .  Shares delivered upon conversion
of your LTIP Award pursuant to Section 6(d)(2) (upon a Governmental Service Termination that satisfies the definition of a Full Career Retirement), 8(a) or 8(b) will not be subject to any transfer restrictions (other than those that may arise
under the securities laws or the Firm s policies) but will be subject to repayment as set forth in Section 3(c). Moreover, if you engage in any activity constituting a cancellation event set forth in Section 11(c) within the
applicable period of time that would have resulted in cancellation of all or a portion of your LTIP Award had it not converted to shares pursuant to Section 6(d)(2), 8(a) or 8(b), you will be required to pay to Morgan Stanley an amount equal
to:     (1)  the number of performance stock units that would have been canceled upon the occurrence of such
cancellation event multiplied by the fair market value, determined using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley, of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your LTIP Award converted to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock; plus  
  (2)  any dividend equivalents that were paid to you on the number of performance stock units described in the foregoing
clause (1) when your LTIP Award converted to shares pursuant to Section 6(d)(2), 8(a) or 8(b); plus     (3) 
interest on the amounts described in the preceding clauses (1) and (2) at the average rate of interest Morgan Stanley paid to borrow money from financial institutions during the period from the date of such conversion through the date
preceding the payment date.  
      10  

9.  
   Change in Control .       In the event of a Change in Control, you will receive on the
Scheduled Conversion Date (subject to earlier payment as described in Section 6 upon death and in Section 8 in connection with  Governmental Service  and subject to any transfer restrictions and the cancellation provisions set
forth herein) the number of shares earned based on the performance measures in Section 2 but applied as though the Performance Period ended with the last quarter of Morgan Stanley ending simultaneously with or before the effective date of the
Change in Control;  provided ,  however , that no such payment shall be made if your Employment terminates following the Change in Control, but prior to the Scheduled Vesting Date, for any reason other than for death, Disability, Full
Career Retirement, Governmental Service Termination or an involuntary termination not involving any cancellation event. For the avoidance of doubt, following a Change in Control, the provisions of this Award Certificate setting forth the
consequences of a termination of employment shall continue to apply (including all provisions governing the timing of payment), except that whenever this Award Certificate provides for you to receive upon or following a termination of employment a
number of shares determined by applying the Pro Ration Fraction, the Pro Ration Fraction shall be applied to the number of shares calculated pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence (e.g., applying the performance measures described herein as
though the Performance Period ended with the last quarter of Morgan Stanley ending simultaneously with or before the effective date of the Change in Control).      

10.  
   Specified employees .       Notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate,
if Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its  specified employees  as defined in Section 409A at the time of your Separation from Service, any conversion of your LTIP Award and payment of your accrued dividend equivalents that
otherwise would occur upon your Separation from Service (including, without limitation, any performance stock units whose conversion was delayed due to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as provided in Section 4) will be delayed
until the first business day following the date that is six months after your Separation from Service;  provided ,  however , that in the event that your death, your Governmental Service Termination or your employment at a Governmental
Employer following your termination of employment with the Firm under circumstances set forth in Section 8(b) occurs at any time after the Date of the Award, conversion and payment will be made in accordance with Section 6 or 8, as
applicable.      

11.  
   Cancellation of awards under certain circumstances .        (a) 
  Cancellation of unvested awards  . Your unvested LTIP Award, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award, will be canceled if your Employment terminates for any reason other than death, Disability, a Full Career Retirement,
an involuntary termination by the Firm described in Section 7 or a Governmental Service Termination.  
      11  

(b)    General treatment of vested awards  . Except as otherwise
provided in this Award Certificate, your LTIP Award, to the extent earned and vested, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award, will convert to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or be paid, as applicable, on the Scheduled
Conversion Date. The cancellation and withholding provisions set forth in this Award Certificate will continue to apply until the Scheduled Conversion Date.  
  (c)    Cancellation of awards under certain
circumstances. 4    The cancellation events set forth in this Section 11(c) are designed, among other things, to incentivize compliance with the Firm s policies (including the Code
of Conduct), to protect the Firm s interests in non-public, confidential and/or proprietary information, products, trade secrets, customer relationships, and other legitimate business interests, and to ensure an orderly transition of
responsibilities. This Section 11(c) shall apply notwithstanding any other terms of this Award Certificate (except where sections in this Award Certificate specifically provide that the cancellation events set forth in this Section 11(c)
no longer apply).    Notwithstanding Morgan Stanley s performance based on the measures set forth in Section 2 or your
satisfaction of the vesting conditions of this Award Certificate, no portion of your LTIP Award (and any dividend equivalents credited thereon) is earned until the Scheduled Conversion Date (and until you satisfy all obligations you owe to the Firm
as set forth in Section 13 below) and, unless prohibited by applicable law, your LTIP Award will be canceled prior to the Scheduled Conversion Date in any of the circumstances set forth below in this Section 11(c). Although you will become
the beneficial owner of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock following conversion of your LTIP Award, the Firm may retain custody of your shares following conversion of your LTIP Award (and any dividend equivalents credited thereon) and the lapse
of any transfer restrictions pending any investigation or other review that impacts the determination as to whether the LTIP Award (and any dividend equivalents credited thereon) are cancellable under the circumstances set forth below and, in such
an instance, the shares underlying your LTIP Award (and any dividend equivalents credited thereon) shall be forfeited in the event the Firm determines that the LTIP Award (and any dividend equivalents credited thereon) were cancellable.  
  (1)    Competitive Activity   .  If you resign from Employment and engage in Competitive Activity before
the Scheduled Conversion Date, your LTIP Award, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award, whether or not vested and irrespective of Morgan Stanley s performance based on the measures set forth in Section 2, will be
canceled immediately, subject to applicable law.      

4   
 The cancellation provisions presented in Section 11(c) of this form of Award Certificate and any corresponding definitions are indicative. The cancellation provisions and corresponding definitions applicable to
awards may vary.    
      12  

(2)  Other Events   .  If any of the following events occur at
any time before the Scheduled Conversion Date, your LTIP Award, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award, whether or not vested and irrespective of Morgan Stanley s performance based on the measures set forth in Section 2,
will be canceled immediately, subject to applicable law:    (i) Your Employment is terminated for Cause or you engage in
conduct constituting Cause (either during or following Employment and whether or not your Employment has been terminated as of the Scheduled Conversion Date);  
 (ii) Following the termination of your Employment, the Firm determines that your Employment could have been terminated for
Cause [(for these purposes,  Cause  will be determined without giving consideration to any  cure  period included in the definition of  Cause   
 (iii) You disclose Confidential and Proprietary Information to any unauthorized person outside the Firm, or use or attempt to
use Confidential and Proprietary Information other than in connection with the business of the Firm; or you fail to comply with your obligations (either during or after your Employment) under the Firm s Code of Conduct (and any applicable
supplements) or otherwise existing between you and the Firm, relating to Confidential and Proprietary Information or an assignment, procurement or enforcement of rights in Confidential and Proprietary Information;  
 (iv) You engage in a Wrongful Solicitation;  
 (v) You make any [Unauthorized Comments] [Unauthorized Disclosures or Defamatory or Disparaging Comments about the Firm];  
 (vi) You fail or refuse, following your termination of Employment, to cooperate with or assist the Firm in a timely manner in
connection with any investigation, regulatory matter, lawsuit or arbitration in which the Firm is a subject, target or party and as to which you may have pertinent information; or  
 (vii) You resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation
consistent with the notice period requirements undertaken by you in connection with your employment offer letter, Sign-On or Notice   Non-Solicitation Agreement or any other contractual obligation in connection with the terms and conditions
of your employment, or, in the event no such prior contractual notice period requirements exist, you resign from your employment with the Firm without having provided the Firm prior written notice of your resignation of at least thirty
(30) days.  
      13  

(3)  Clawback Cancellation Events .      
 (i) Your LTIP Award, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award, whether or not vested and irrespective of
Morgan Stanley s performance based on the measures set forth in Section 2, will be canceled in full, or in the case of clause (c) below, in full or in part, subject to applicable law, if before the Scheduled Conversion Date:  
 (a) You take any action, or you fail to take any action (including with respect to direct supervisory responsibilities), where
such action or omission:      

(i) 
 causes a restatement of the Firm s consolidated financial results;        

(ii) 
 constitutes a violation by you of the Firm s Global Risk Management Principles, Policies and Standards (where prior authorization and approval of appropriate senior management was not obtained) whether such action
results in a favorable or unfavorable impact to the Firm s consolidated financial results; or        

(iii) 
 causes a loss in the current year on a trade or transaction originating in the current year or in any prior year for which revenue was recognized and which was a factor in your award determination, and violated internal
control policies that resulted from your:        

(A) 
 violation of business unit, product or desk specific risk parameters;        

(B) 
 use of an incorrect valuation model, method, or inputs for transactions subject to the  STAR  approval process;        

(C) 
 failure to perform appropriate due diligence prior to a trade or transaction or failure to provide critical information known at the time of the transaction that might negatively affect the valuation of the transaction;
or        

(D) 
 failure to timely monitor or escalate to management a loss position pursuant to applicable policies and procedures; or    
 (b) [The Firm and/or relevant business unit suffers a material downturn in its financial performance or the Firm and/or
relevant business unit suffers a material failure of risk management.]    In the event that the Firm determines, in its sole
discretion, that your action or omission is as described in clause (iii) and you do not engage in any other cancellation or clawback event described in this Section 11(c), your Target  
      14  

Award will be reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the pre-tax loss, and the denominator of which is the total revenue originally recognized by the Firm which was a
factor in your award determination.    (ii) Your LTIP Award, including any dividend equivalents credited on your award,
whether or not vested and irrespective of Morgan Stanley s performance based on the measures set forth in Section 2, may be canceled, in full or in part, if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that at any time before the
Scheduled Conversion Date you had significant responsibility for a material adverse outcome for the Firm or any of its businesses or functions. The Committee shall have the sole authority to interpret this provision and its determinations shall be
final and binding on all persons.     (4)  [Clawback for Code Staff   .  Any shares or amounts distributed in
respect of your Award are subject to repayment, recovery and recapture pursuant to the Morgan Stanley Code Staff Clawback Policy, as amended from time to time, and any applicable clawback, repayment, recoupment or recovery requirements imposed under
applicable laws, rules and regulations.]      

12.  
   Tax and other withholding obligations .       Any vesting, whether on a Scheduled
Vesting Date or some other date, of your LTIP Award (including dividend equivalents that have been credited in respect of your award), and any conversion of your LTIP Award or crediting or payment of dividend equivalents, shall be subject to the
Firm s withholding of all required United States federal, state, local and foreign income and employment/payroll taxes (including Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes). You authorize the Firm to withhold such taxes from any payroll or
other payment or compensation to you, including by canceling or accelerating payment of a portion of this award (including any dividend equivalents that have been credited on your LTIP Award) in an amount not to exceed such taxes imposed upon such
vesting, conversion, crediting or payment and any additional taxes imposed as a result of such cancellation or acceleration, and to take such other action as the Firm may deem advisable to enable it and you to satisfy obligations for the payment of
withholding taxes and other tax obligations, assessments, or other governmental charges, whether of the United States or any other jurisdiction, relating to the vesting or conversion of your LTIP Award or the crediting, vesting or payment of
dividend equivalents. However, the Firm may not deduct or withhold such sum from any payroll or any other payment or compensation (including from your LTIP Award), except to the extent it is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause
you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before conversion of your LTIP Award or your dividend equivalents are paid or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.  
 Pursuant to rules and procedures that Morgan Stanley establishes, you may elect to satisfy the tax or other withholding obligations arising
upon conversion of your LTIP Award by having Morgan Stanley withhold shares of Morgan Stanley common stock in an amount sufficient to satisfy the tax or other withholding obligations. Shares withheld will be valued using the fair market value
of Morgan Stanley common stock on the date your LTIP Award converts (or such other appropriate date determined by Morgan Stanley based on local legal, tax  
      15  

or accounting rules and practices) using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley. In order to comply with applicable accounting standards or the Firm s policies in
effect from time to time, Morgan Stanley may limit the amount of shares that you may have withheld.      

13.  
   Obligations you owe to the Firm .       As a condition to the earning, payment,
conversion or distribution of your award, the Firm may require you to pay such sum to the Firm as may be necessary to satisfy any obligation that you owe to the Firm. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Certificate, your award, even if
vested, converted or paid, is not earned until after such obligations and any tax withholdings or other deductions required by law are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Morgan Stanley may not reduce the number of shares to be
delivered upon conversion of your LTIP Award or the amount of dividend equivalents to be paid in respect of your award or delay the payment of your award to satisfy obligations that you owe to the Firm except (i) to the extent
authorized under Section 12, relating to tax and other withholding obligations or (ii) to the extent such reduction or delay is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal
income tax purposes before your LTIP Award converts to shares of Morgan Stanley common stock (or your dividend equivalents are paid) or to incur additional tax or interest under Section 409A.  
 Morgan Stanley s determination of any amount that you owe the Firm shall be conclusive. The fair market value of Morgan Stanley common
stock for purposes of the foregoing provisions shall be determined using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley.      

14.  
   Nontransferability .       You may not sell, pledge, hypothecate, assign or otherwise
transfer your award, other than as provided in Section 15 (which allows you to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries in the event of your death) or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This prohibition includes any assignment or
other transfer that purports to occur by operation of law or otherwise. During your lifetime, payments relating to your award will be made only to you.  
 Your personal representatives, heirs, legatees, beneficiaries, successors and assigns, and those of Morgan Stanley, shall all be bound by, and
shall benefit from, the terms and conditions of your award.      

15.  
   Designation of a beneficiary .       You may make a written designation of beneficiary
or beneficiaries to receive all or part of your award to be delivered or paid under this Award Certificate in the event of your death. To make a beneficiary designation, you must complete and submit the Beneficiary Designation form on the Executive
Compensation website.    Any shares or dividend equivalents that become deliverable upon your death, and as to which a designation of
beneficiary is not in effect, will be distributed to your estate.  
      16  

If you previously filed a designation of beneficiary form for your equity awards with the
Executive Compensation Department, such form will also apply to all of your equity awards, including this award. You may replace or revoke your beneficiary designation at any time. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to
receive shares or payments under this award, Morgan Stanley may determine in its sole discretion to deliver the shares or make the payments in question to your estate. Morgan Stanley s determination shall be binding and conclusive on all
persons and it will have no further liability to anyone with respect to this award.      

16.  
   Ownership and possession .        (a)    Before
conversion  . Generally, you will not have any rights as a stockholder in the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock corresponding to your LTIP Award unless and until your LTIP Award converts to shares. Without limiting the generality of the
preceding sentence, you will not have any voting rights with respect to shares corresponding to your LTIP Award until your LTIP Award converts to shares.  
  (b)    Following conversion  . Subject to Sections 3(c) and 11(c), following conversion of your LTIP Award you
will be the beneficial owner of the shares of Morgan Stanley common stock issued to you, and you will be entitled to all rights of ownership, including voting rights and the right to receive cash or stock dividends or other distributions paid on the
shares.     (c)    Custody of shares  . Morgan Stanley may maintain possession of the shares subject to your
award until such time as your shares are no longer subject to restrictions on transfer.      

17.  
   Securities law compliance matters .       Morgan Stanley may affix a legend to any
stock certificates representing shares of Morgan Stanley common stock issued upon conversion of your LTIP Award (and any stock certificates that may subsequently be issued in substitution for the original certificates). The legend will read
substantially as follows:     THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS STOCK CERTIFICATE WERE ISSUED PURSUANT TO THE MORGAN STANLEY 2007 EQUITY
INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN AND ARE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THEREOF AND OF AN AWARD CERTIFICATE FOR LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM AWARDS AND ANY SUPPLEMENT THERETO.   
  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS STOCK CERTIFICATE MAY BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER BY VIRTUE OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
     COPIES OF THE PLAN, THE AWARD CERTIFICATE FOR LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM AWARDS AND ANY SUPPLEMENT THERETO ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH
THE EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION DEPARTMENT.     Morgan Stanley may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against such shares if it
determines that such an order is necessary or advisable.  
      17  

18.  
   Compliance with laws and regulation .       Any sale, assignment, transfer, pledge,
mortgage, encumbrance or other disposition of shares issued upon conversion of your LTIP Award (whether directly or indirectly, whether or not for value, and whether or not voluntary) must be made in compliance with any applicable constitution,
rule, regulation or policy of any of the exchanges or associations or other institutions with which the Firm or a Related Employer has membership or other privileges, and any applicable law or applicable rule or regulation of any governmental
agency, self-regulatory organization or state or federal regulatory body.      
    (a)    No right to continued
Employment   .  This award is not an employment agreement, and nothing in this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall alter your status as an  at-will  employee of the Firm or your
employment status at a Related Employer. None of this Award Certificate, the International Supplement, if applicable, or the Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing your employment by the Firm or a Related Employer, or as giving you any right to
continue in the employ of the Firm or a Related Employer, during any period (including without limitation the period between the Date of the Award and any of the Scheduled Vesting Date, the Scheduled Conversion Date, or any portion of any of these
periods), nor shall they be construed as giving you any right to be reemployed by the Firm or a Related Employer following any termination of Employment.  
  (b)    No right to future awards   .  This award, and all other LTIP Awards and other equity-based
awards, are discretionary. This award does not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive another LTIP Award or any other equity-based award at any time in the future or in respect of any future period.  
  (c)    No effect on future employment compensation   .  Morgan Stanley has made this award to you in its
sole discretion. This award does not confer on you any right or entitlement to receive compensation in any specific amount for any future year, and does not diminish in any way the Firm s discretion to determine the amount, if any, of your
compensation. This award is not part of your base salary or wages and will not be taken into account in determining any other employment-related rights you may have, such as rights to pension or severance pay.  
  (d)    Award terms control     .  In the event of any conflict between any terms applicable to
equity awards in any employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement that you have entered into with the Firm and the terms set forth in this Award Certificate, the latter shall control.  
      18  

20.  
   Consents under local law .       Your award is conditioned upon the making of all
filings and the receipt of all consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable local law.      
   Morgan Stanley reserves the right to modify or amend
unilaterally the terms and conditions of your award, without first asking your consent, or to waive any terms and conditions that operate in favor of Morgan Stanley. These amendments may include (but are not limited to) changes that Morgan Stanley
considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in any, or the adoption of any new, Legal Requirement. Morgan Stanley may not modify your award in a manner that would materially impair your rights in your award without your consent;
 provided ,  however , that Morgan Stanley may, but is not required to, without your consent, amend or modify your award in any manner that Morgan Stanley considers necessary or advisable to (i) comply with any Legal Requirement,
(ii) ensure that your award does not result in an excise or other supplemental tax on the Firm under any Legal Requirement, or (iii) ensure that your award is not subject to United States federal, state or local income tax or any
equivalent taxes in territories outside the United States prior to conversion of your LTIP Award to shares or delivery of such shares following conversion or the crediting or payment of dividend equivalents. Morgan Stanley will notify you of any
amendment of your award that affects your rights. Any amendment or waiver of a provision of this Award Certificate (other than any amendment or waiver applicable to all recipients generally), which amendment or waiver operates in your favor or
confers a benefit on you, must be in writing and signed by the Chief Human Resources Officer or the Chief Operating Officer (or if such positions no longer exist, by the holder of an equivalent position) to be effective.  
   
   This Award Certificate and the related legal relations between
you and Morgan Stanley will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts or choice of law, rule or principle that might otherwise refer the interpretation of the award to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction.      
   For purposes of this Award Certificate, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:     (a)     Board    means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.  
  (b)     Cause    means:  
  (1)  any act or omission which constitutes a breach of your obligations to the Firm, including, without limitation,
(A) your failure to comply with any notice or non-solicitation restrictions that may be applicable to you or (B) your failure to comply  
      19  

with the Firm s compliance, ethics or risk management standards, or your failure or refusal to perform satisfactorily any duties reasonably required of you[, which breach, failure or refusal
(if susceptible to cure) is not corrected (other than failure to correct by reason of your incapacity due to physical or mental illness) within ten (10) business days after written notification thereof to you by the Firm];  
  (2)  your commission of any dishonest or fraudulent act, or any other act or omission, which has caused or may
reasonably be expected to cause injury to the interest or business reputation of the Firm; or     (3)  your violation
of any securities, commodities or banking laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or rules or regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Firm is a member or of any policy of the Firm
relating to compliance with any of the foregoing;     provided,  that an act or omission shall constitute  Cause  for purposes
of this definition if the Firm determines, in its sole discretion, that such action or omission is described in Section 11(c)(3)(iii) and is deliberate, intentional or willful.  
  (c)  A    Change in Control    shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following conditions
shall have been satisfied:     (1)  any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under
Section 409A), other than (A) any employee plan established by Morgan Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) Morgan Stanley or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act), (C) an
underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (D) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of Morgan Stanley in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Morgan
Stanley, is or becomes, during any 12-month period, the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person(s) any securities acquired directly from Morgan
Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of the total voting power of the stock of Morgan Stanley;  provided ,  however , that the
provisions of this subsection (1) are not intended to apply to or include as a Change in Control any transaction that is specifically excepted from the definition of Change in Control under subsection (3) below;  
  (2)  a change in the composition of the Board such that, during any 12-month period, the individuals who, as of the
beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the    Existing Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least 50% of the Board;  provided ,  however , that any individual becoming a member of the Board
subsequent to the beginning of such period whose election, or nomination for election by Morgan Stanley s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors immediately prior to the date of such appointment or election
shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Existing Board;  
      20  

(3)  the consummation of a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley with
any other corporation or other entity, or the issuance of voting securities in connection with a merger or consolidation of Morgan Stanley (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Morgan Stanley) pursuant to applicable stock exchange requirements;
 provided  that immediately following such merger or consolidation the voting securities of Morgan Stanley outstanding immediately prior thereto do not continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting
securities of the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation or parent entity thereof) 50% or more of the total voting power of Morgan Stanley stock (or if Morgan Stanley is not the surviving entity of such merger or consolidation, 50% or more
of the total voting power of the stock of such surviving entity or parent entity thereof); and  provided  further that a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Morgan Stanley (or similar transaction) in which no
person (as determined under Section 409A) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Morgan Stanley (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such person any securities acquired directly from
Morgan Stanley or its affiliates other than in connection with the acquisition by Morgan Stanley or its affiliates of a business) representing 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of Morgan Stanley common stock or the combined voting
power of Morgan Stanley s then outstanding voting securities shall not be considered a Change in Control; or  
  (4)  the complete liquidation of Morgan Stanley or the sale or disposition by Morgan Stanley of all or substantially all
of Morgan Stanley s assets in which any one person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined under Section 409A) acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such
person or persons) assets from Morgan Stanley that have a total gross fair market value equal to more than 50% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.  
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or
series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an
entity which owns substantially all of the assets of Morgan Stanley immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions and (y) no event or circumstances described in any of clauses (1) through (4) above shall constitute a
Change in Control unless such event or circumstances also constitute a change in the ownership or effective control of Morgan Stanley, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of Morgan Stanley s assets, as defined in Section 409A. In
addition, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred upon the acquisition of additional control of Morgan Stanley by any one person or more than one person acting as a group that is considered to effectively control Morgan Stanley.  
 For purposes of the provisions of this Award Certificate, terms used in the definition of a Change in Control shall be as defined or
interpreted pursuant to Section 409A.  
      21  

(d)     Committee    means the Compensation, Management Development and
Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of the Board appointed by the Board with the powers of the Committee under the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.  
  (e)     Competitive Activity    means:  
  (1)  becoming, or entering into any arrangement as, an employee, officer, partner, member, proprietor, director,
independent contractor, consultant, advisor, representative or agent of, or serving in any similar position or capacity with, a Competitor, where you will be responsible for providing, or managing or supervising others who are providing, services
(x) that are similar or substantially related to the services that you provided to the Firm, or (y) that you had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for at the Firm, or (z) that call for the application of the
same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as those utilized by you in your services for the Firm, in each such case, at any time during the year preceding the termination of your employment with the Firm; or  
  (2)  either alone or in concert with others, forming, or acquiring a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting interest or
profit participation in, a Competitor.     (f)     Competitor    means any corporation, partnership or other entity
that competes, or that owns a significant interest in any corporation, partnership or other entity that competes, with any business activity the Firm engages in, or that you reasonably knew or should have known that the Firm was planning to engage
in, at the time of the termination of your Employment.     (g)     Confidential and Proprietary Information    means
any information that is classified as confidential in the Firm s Global Policy on Confidential Information or that may have intrinsic value to the Firm, the Firm s clients or other parties with which the Firm has a relationship, or that
may provide the Firm with a competitive advantage, including, without limitation, any trade secrets; inventions (whether or not patentable); formulas; flow charts; computer programs; access codes or other systems information; algorithms; technology
and business processes; business, product or marketing plans; sales and other forecasts; financial information; client lists or other intellectual property; information relating to compensation and benefits; and public information that becomes
proprietary as a result of the Firm s compilation of that information for use in its business,  provided  that such Confidential and Proprietary Information does not include any information which is available for use by the general public
or is generally available for use within the relevant business or industry other than as a result of your action. Confidential and Proprietary Information may be in any medium or form, including, without limitation, physical documents, computer
files or discs, electronic communications, videotapes, audiotapes, and oral communications.     (h)     Date of the
Award    means [insert grant date, which will typically coincide with the beginning of the performance period].  
      22  

(i)  [You will be deemed to have made    Defamatory or Disparaging
Comments    about the Firm if, at any time, you make, publish, or issue, or cause to be made, published or issued, in any medium whatsoever to any person or entity external to the Firm, any derogatory, defamatory or disparaging statement
regarding the Firm, its businesses or strategic plans, products, practices, policies, personnel or any other Firm matter. Nothing contained herein is intended to prevent you from testifying truthfully or making truthful statements or submissions in
litigation or other legal, administrative or regulatory proceedings or internal investigations.]     (j)
    Disability    means any condition that would qualify for a benefit under any group long-term disability plan maintained by the Firm and applicable to you.  
  (k)     Employed    and    Employment    refer to employment with the Firm and/or Related
Employment.     (l)  The    Firm    means Morgan Stanley (including any successor thereto) together with its
subsidiaries and affiliates. For purposes of the definitions of  Cause,   Confidential and Proprietary Information,  [ Defamatory or Disparaging Comments, ] [ Unauthorized Comments, ] [ Unauthorized
Disclosures ] and  Wrongful Solicitation  set forth in this Award Certificate and Section 11(c)(2)(vi) of this Award Certificate, references to the  Firm  shall refer severally to the Firm as defined in the preceding
sentence and your Related Employer, if any. For purposes of the cancellation provisions set forth in this Award Certificate relating to disclosure or use of Confidential and Proprietary Information, references to the  Firm  shall refer to
the Firm as defined in the second preceding sentence or your Related Employer, as applicable.     (m)     Full Career
Retirement    means the termination of your Employment by you or by the Firm for any reason other than under circumstances involving any cancellation event described in Section 11(c) (including due to your Disability, death or
Governmental Service Termination), if you have either satisfied the age and service requirements set forth in your employment agreement or offer letter with the Firm or, if you are not party to an employment agreement or offer letter with the Firm
(or if such agreement or letter does not include a definition of  Full Career Retirement ), you meet any of the following criteria as of your termination date and, in either case, unless your Employment terminates for reasons of
Disability, death or a Governmental Service Termination, [you have provided the Firm at least 12 months  advance notice of such termination]:  
  (1)  you have attained age 50 and completed at least 12 years of service as a [    ] 5  of the Firm or equivalent officer title; or     (2)  you have attained
age 50 and completed at least 15 years of service as an officer of the Firm at the level of [    ] 6  or above; or  

5   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    

6   
 Specified officer title(s) in one or more specified business units.    
      23  

(3)  you have completed at least 20 years of service with the Firm; or  
  (4)  you have attained age 55 and have completed at least 5 years of service with the Firm and the sum of your age and
years of service equals or exceeds 65. 7     For the purposes of the foregoing
definition, service with the Firm will include any period of service with the following entities and any of their predecessors:  
 (i) AB Asesores (   ABS   ) prior to its acquisition by the Firm ( provided  that only years of
service as a partner of ABS shall count towards years of service as an officer);    (ii) Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and its
subsidiaries (   MS Group   ) prior to the merger with and into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;  
 (iii) Miller Anderson   Sherrerd, L.L.P. prior to its acquisition by MS Group;  
 (iv) Van Kampen Investments Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by MS Group;  
 (v) FrontPoint Partners LLC and its subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Firm; and  
 (vi) Dean Witter, Discover   Co. and its subsidiaries (   DWD   ) prior to the merger of Morgan
Stanley Group Inc. with and into Dean Witter, Discover   Co.;     provided  that, in the case of an employee who has transferred employment
from DWD to MS Group or vice versa, a former employee of DWD will receive credit for employment with DWD only if he or she transferred directly from DWD to Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated or its affiliates subsequent to February 5,
1997, and a former employee of MS Group will receive credit for employment with MS Group only if he or she transferred directly from MS Group to Morgan Stanley DW Inc. or its affiliates subsequent to February 5, 1997.  
  (n)     Governmental Employer    means a governmental department or agency, self-regulatory agency or other public
service employer.     (o)     Governmental Service Termination    means the termination of your Employment due to
your commencement of employment at a Governmental Employer;  provided  that you have presented the Firm with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such new employment, the divestiture of your continued interest in Morgan
Stanley equity awards or continued ownership of Morgan Stanley common stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to you at such Governmental
Employer.      

7   
 Age and service conditions specified in clauses (1) through (4) may vary from year to year and for awards granted to certain employees.    
      24  

(p)       Index Group      means the S P 500 Financial
Sectors Index.     (q)     Internal Revenue Code    means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder.     (r)     Legal Requirement    means any law,
regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standard, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement.     (s)
    Management Committee    means the Morgan Stanley Management Committee and any successor or equivalent committee.  
  (t)     MS ROE    means Morgan Stanley s return on average common shareholders  equity, including
discontinued operations and extraordinary items, for each fiscal year during the Performance Period, adjusted to eliminate the impact of the following items with respect to each such fiscal year: (a) debt valuation adjustments, (b) any
individual gain or loss associated with the sale of any Disposal Group at the time of, or subsequent to, it being classified as Held for Sale, (c) any individual goodwill impairment recognized in a fiscal year within a Reporting
Unit if an acquisition by Morgan Stanley (or a subsidiary) of a Non-Controlling Interest in an entity in which Morgan Stanley (or a subsidiary) already has a Controlling Interest is made within the same period and same Reporting Unit,
(d) any aggregate gains or losses associated with legal settlements and/or accruals related to legal settlements recognized in the fiscal year and relating to business activities conducted prior to January 1, 2011 and (e) any impacts
for changes to an existing, or application of a new, accounting principle that are not applied on a fully retrospective basis in the year of adoption and result in a cumulative catch-up adjustment (recorded either as a gain or a loss, or as an
adjustment to equity) in the applicable fiscal year.      

For purposes of each of clauses (b) through (e) above, adjustments shall only be made to MS ROE if the pre-tax amounts equal or exceed $100 million during the applicable fiscal year;    

For purposes of clauses (b) and (c) above,  Disposal Group,   Held for Sale,   Controlling Interest,   Non-Controlling Interest,  and  Reporting Unit  shall be
defined in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles;        

For purposes of clause (b) above, any gain or loss associated with the sale of a Disposal Group shall include any transaction costs, severance costs, and/or acceleration of unvested deferred compensation awards;
and        

For purposes of clause (d) above, such gains or losses shall include any expense (or reversal of expense) recognized during the fiscal year associated with legal proceedings and/or legal settlements.
   
      25  

(u)     Performance Period    means the three-year period consisting of
the reporting years of Morgan Stanley of [year of the Date of the Award, first year following the Date of the Award and second year following the Date of the Award].  
  (v)     Plan    means the 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.  
  (w)     Pro Ration Fraction    means a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days starting with and
inclusive of [January 1 st  immediately preceding the Date of the Award] and ending on the effective date of your termination of Employment and the denominator of which is the number of days in the
period beginning on [January 1 st  immediately preceding the Date of the Award] and ending on the Scheduled Vesting Date.  
  (x)     Related Employment    means your employment with an employer other than the Firm (such employer, herein
referred to as a    Related Employer   ),  provided  that: (i) you undertake such employment at the written request or with the written consent of Morgan Stanley s Chief Human Resources Officer (or if such position
no longer exists, the holder of an equivalent position); (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment you were an employee of the Firm or were engaged in Related Employment (as defined herein); and (iii) such employment is
recognized by the Firm in its discretion as Related Employment; and,  provided further,  that the Firm may (1) determine at any time in its sole discretion that employment that was recognized by the Firm as Related Employment no longer
qualifies as Related Employment, and (2) condition the designation and benefits of Related Employment on such terms and conditions as the Firm may determine in its sole discretion;  provided further , the Firm will not provide for Related
Employment except to the extent such treatment is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause you to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes before your performance stock units convert to shares (or your dividend
equivalents are paid) or to incur additional tax or interest under Section 409A. The designation of employment as Related Employment does not give rise to an employment relationship between you and the Firm, or otherwise modify your and the
Firm s respective rights and obligations .      (y)     Scheduled Conversion Date    means a date during
[third year following the Date of the Award] determined by the Committee.     (z)     Scheduled Vesting Date   
means [January 1 st  of the third year following the Date of the Award].     (aa)
    Section 162(m)    means Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and any regulations thereunder.  
  (bb)     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and any regulations thereunder.  
  (cc)     Separation from Service    means a separation from service with the Firm for purposes of Section 409A
determined using the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) or any successor regulation thereto. For purposes of this definition, Morgan Stanley s subsidiaries and affiliates include (and are limited to) any
corporation that is  
      26  

in the same controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) as Morgan Stanley and any trade or business that is under common control with
Morgan Stanley (within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code), determined in each case in accordance with the default provisions set forth in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).  
  (dd)     Target Award    means the number of performance stock units that has been communicated to you separately and
that will be earned, subject to the other terms and conditions of this Award Certificate, if each of the multipliers set forth in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) equals 1.  
  (ee)     Total Shareholder Return    or    TSR   , as it applies to  
  (1)  Morgan Stanley s common stock, means the percentage change in value (positive or negative) over the Performance Period as
measured by dividing (i) the sum of (A) the cumulative value of dividends and other distributions in respect of the common stock for the Performance Period, assuming dividend reinvestment, and (B) the difference (positive or negative)
between the common stock price on the first and last days of the Performance Period (calculated on the basis of the average of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period immediately prior to the first day of the Performance Period
and the average of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period ending on the last day of the Performance Period), by (ii) the common stock price on the first day of the Performance Period, calculated on the basis of the average
of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period immediately prior to the first day of the Performance Period; and  
  (2)  the Index Group, means the percentage change in value (positive or negative) over the Performance Period as measured by dividing
(i) the difference (positive or negative) between the closing price of the Index Group on the first and last days of the Performance Period (calculated on the basis of the average of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period
immediately prior to the first day of the Performance Period and the average of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period ending on the last day of the Performance Period), by (ii) the closing price of the Index Group on the
first day of the Performance Period, calculated on the basis of the average of the adjusted closing prices over the 30-day trading period immediately prior to the first day of the Performance Period. The adjusted closing price of the Index Group on
any given date shall be the closing price of the S P 500 Financial Sectors Index as reported by the Bloomberg Professional Service.  
  (ff)  [You will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Comments    about the Firm if, while Employed or following the
termination of your Employment, you make, directly or indirectly, any negative, derogatory, disparaging or defamatory comment, whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity or to any
general public media in any form (including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape, audio tape, computer/Internet format or any other medium) that concerns directly or indirectly the Firm, its
business or operations, or any of its current or former agents, employees, officers, directors, customers or clients.]  
      27  

(gg)  [You will be deemed to have made    Unauthorized Disclosures   
about the Firm if, while Employed or following the termination of your Employment, without having first received written authorization from the Firm, you disclose, or participate in the disclosure of or allow disclosure of, any information about the
Firm or its present or former clients, customers, executives, officers, directors, or other employees or Board members, or its business or operations, or legal matters involving the Firm and resolution or settlement thereof, or any aspects of your
Employment with the Firm or termination of such Employment (which, for the avoidance of doubt, does not prevent you from confirming your employment status with the Firm), whether written, oral or in electronic format, to any reporter, author,
producer or similar person or entity or to any general public media in any form (including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape, television or other broadcasts, audio tape,
electronic/Internet or blog format or any other medium).]     (hh)  A    Wrongful Solicitation    occurs upon either
of the following events:     (1)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection
with the termination of your Employment, or within 180 days after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you hire or
solicit, recruit, induce, entice, influence or encourage any Firm employee to leave the Firm or become hired or engaged by another firm;  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to employees with whom you worked or had
professional or business contact, or who worked in or with your business unit, during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your
Employment; or     (2)  while Employed, including during any notice period applicable to you in connection with the
termination of your Employment, or within 90 days (180 days if you are a member of the Management Committee at the time of notice of termination) after the termination of your Employment, directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any
person, corporation, partnership or other business entity of any kind), you solicit or entice away or in any manner attempt to persuade any client or customer, or prospective client or customer, of the Firm (i) to discontinue or diminish his,
her or its relationship or prospective relationship with the Firm or (ii) to otherwise provide his, her or its business to any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity which engages in any line of business in which the Firm is
engaged (other than the Firm);  provided ,  however , that this clause shall apply only to clients or customers, or prospective clients or customers, that you worked for on an actual or prospective project or assignment during any notice
period applicable to you in connection with the termination of your Employment or during the 180 days preceding notice of the termination of your Employment.  
      28  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Morgan Stanley has duly executed and delivered this Award Certificate
as of the Date of the Award.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

/s/  

[Name]  
 
 [Title]  

29  

</EX-10.40>

<EX-10.41>
 7
 d48186dex1041.htm
 EX-10.41

EX-10.41 

EXHIBIT 10.41  
 January 22, 2016    Gregory Fleming  
 New York, New York      RE: Change of
Employment Status And Release Agreement      Dear Greg:  
 This letter sets forth our agreement (the  Agreement ) concerning the change of your employment status with Morgan Stanley. For
purposes of this Agreement, Morgan Stanley shall include Morgan Stanley and any and all former and existing parents, subsidiaries, predecessors, successors and affiliates, including Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, and its and their respective
current and former directors, officers, employees, agents, managers, shareholders, successors, assigns and other representatives ( Morgan Stanley ) and  you  shall include your heirs, executors, administrators, attorneys,
representatives, successors and assigns.    We have mutually agreed that your active employment with Morgan Stanley ended on January 6,
2016, and that you will, except as otherwise provided below, remain on the payroll at your current base salary through July 6, 2016 (the  Termination Date ) (the period from January 6, 2016 through the

Termination Date, the  Transition Period ). Through January 6, 2016, you remained a member of the Firm s Operating Committee and an Executive Officer with all of the
obligations and responsibilities associated with those positions. Further, you will also be eligible for continued participation in all welfare and other benefit and retirement plans and programs through the Termination Date or the Accelerated
Termination Date (as defined herein), as applicable, with further participation in the medical plan through the last day of the month in which your employment terminates. Your employment will terminate for all purposes on the Termination Date or the
Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable.    This Agreement becomes effective and enforceable seven (7) days after you execute and
do not revoke it. The signed Agreement must be returned to the undersigned on the next business day immediately following the end of the twenty-one (21) day period provided for in the Agreement.  
   Payments and Benefits    
 We have also mutually agreed that in exchange for executing and not revoking this Agreement, Morgan Stanley will provide you with:  

(1) 
   A 2015 Above Base Compensation award (the  Bonus ) in the amount determined by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession
Committee of the Board of     
      2  

Directors of Morgan Stanley (the  CMDS Committee ), which Bonus shall be comprised of a mix of current cash bonus, a deferred cash incentive compensation award and a deferred equity
incentive compensation award in the form of restricted stock units as determined by the CMDS Committee and shall be awarded at such times as bonuses are awarded to active employees in 2016.    

(2) 
  Involuntary termination  treatment for all outstanding equity and deferred incentive compensation held by you as of the Termination Date or Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable, as described in the
relevant equity-based and other deferred incentive compensation award certificates and other award documentation (including those granted as part of subsection (1) above), which will result in the vesting of such unvested awards on the
Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable (other than those awards which by their terms vest earlier than such date) and any options will remain outstanding and exercisable until the expiration of the original option term.
   
      3  

(3) 
 Office space at a location to be mutually agreed upon by you and Morgan Stanley and the use of your current Executive Assistant through the Termination Date. Your access to Morgan Stanley s electronic systems shall
expire on January 31, 2016.        

(4) 
 Continued access to your primary care physician in the Morgan Stanley Executive Healthcare Program through December 31, 2016.    
 In addition, you understand and agree that if any provision of this Agreement fails to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 409A ) or any regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder, or would result in your recognizing income for United States federal income tax purposes with respect to any amount payable under
this Agreement before the date of payment, or to incur interest or additional tax pursuant to Section 409A, Morgan Stanley reserves the right to, after conferring with you in good faith to find a reasonable solution, reform such provision;
provided that Morgan Stanley shall maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without violating the provisions of Section 409A.  
      4  

We have also agreed that all terms of your Morgan Stanley equity-based and other deferred
incentive compensation awards that have been granted to you during the course of your Morgan Stanley employment, as applicable, as of the Termination Date, will not be deemed to be modified by this Agreement. You understand and agree that you remain
subject to all conditions, restrictions and risks inherent in the plans and the awards, including but not limited to, the vesting, conversion and forfeiture/cancellation provisions of the respective awards. For the sake of clarity, Morgan
Stanley s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Legal Officer, and Chief Human Resources Officer are not aware of any acts or omissions that would constitute a cancellation or clawback event as of the execution date of this Agreement. For purposes of
such awards and only to the extent applicable to such awards, your employment will be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated. Please consult the relevant award certificates and other award documentation for the controlling terms of such
awards. You acknowledge that any vesting or payments in equity or cash described in the respective awards are subject to any applicable tax withholding requirements. You also acknowledge that Morgan Stanley, from time to time in its sole discretion,
may modify or change its policies with respect to the sale of Morgan Stanley stock by former and existing employees. You agree to fully abide by any such policies with respect to the sale of Morgan Stanley stock and any window period or other
restrictions which may apply, or become applicable to you, during the term of this Agreement and thereafter.  
      5  

You understand and agree that the foregoing consideration provided to you under the terms of this
Agreement is in addition to anything of value to which you are otherwise entitled. You represent, warrant and acknowledge that Morgan Stanley owes you no wages, commissions, bonuses, sick or other medical or disability-related pay, personal or other
leave-of-absence pay, severance pay, notice pay, vacation pay, or other compensation or payments or form of remuneration of any kind or nature, other than that specifically provided for in this Agreement.  
 Morgan Stanley considers you to be one of its  specified employees  for purposes of Section 409A. Therefore, pursuant to
Section 409A and the terms and conditions of your Morgan Stanley deferred incentive compensation awards, payment of any cash-based deferred incentive compensation awards and conversion of any stock units that would otherwise occur on account of
your  Separation from Service  (as defined in Section 409A, and generally the date on which you cease performing services for Morgan Stanley, i.e. January 6, 2016) during the period commencing on your Separation from Service and
ending on the date that is six months thereafter, including, without limitation, payments or stock unit  
      6  

conversions that were delayed due to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, will instead be paid or convert, as applicable, on the first business day following the date that is six
months after your Separation from Service.    You acknowledge and agree that your receipt of any and all payments and benefits provided in
this Agreement is contingent upon (a) your remaining an employee in good standing through the Termination Date or Accelerate Termination Date, as the case may be, and adhering to the terms of this Agreement, and all Morgan Stanley policies
applicable to you and (b) your execution and non-revocation and receipt by Morgan Stanley of this effective and enforceable Agreement. You further agree that you will not hold yourself out to be an officer, director, manager or agent of Morgan
Stanley or otherwise attempt to bind or contract on behalf of Morgan Stanley without prior written authorization of Morgan Stanley during the Transition Period.  
 For the sake of clarity, you remain an employee of Morgan Stanley through the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as
applicable. You agree that you will not provide services of any kind on an employee or consultant basis whether or not for remuneration on behalf of any competitor entity previously identified and specifically agreed to by and between you and Morgan
Stanley (a  Competitor ) through the Termination  
      7  

Date unless expressly authorized to do so by Morgan Stanley. In the event you obtain or secure new employment, provide service to or otherwise seek to become associated with in any capacity any
entity other than a Competitor during the Transition Period, Morgan Stanley will and hereby does agree to waive the balance of the Transition Period and accelerate your termination date ( Accelerated Termination Date ) to permit your
immediate engagement with such entity. You understand and agree that all salary for which you are otherwise eligible for under the Agreement and by virtue of your employment with Morgan Stanley will end on the Accelerated Termination Date. Morgan
Stanley agrees that if you obtain or secure new employment, provide service to or otherwise seek to become associated with in any capacity any entity other than a Competitor during the Transition Period, Morgan Stanley will not deem this activity to
be a violation of this Agreement nor shall it affect involuntary termination treatment of any equity or deferred incentive compensation award, or any notice period requirement and the Accelerated Termination Date shall be treated as your Termination
Date for purposes hereof.    In addition, in exchange for the payments and other benefits provided to you hereunder by the Firm, we agree
that, through and including January 6, 2017, you will not directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through  
      8  

any person, corporation, partnership or business entity of any kind), hire or solicit, recruit, induce, entice, influence, or encourage any Morgan Stanley employee to leave Morgan Stanley for or
to otherwise become hired or engaged by any entity. The restrictions in this paragraph shall apply only to employees with whom you worked or had professional or business contact, or who worked in or with your business unit, during the 180 day period
preceding January 6, 2016 ( Wrongful Solicitation ). Notwithstanding the restrictions in this paragraph, we agree that you may solicit and retain your current Executive Assistant and any such solicitation or hire will not be deemed a
violation of this section. Further, it is understood that your signature on an offer letter, without more, shall not constitute a violation hereto.  
 You also understand and agree that all outstanding claims for expenses incurred properly in the performance of your duties must be submitted
as soon as possible but in no event later than six (6) weeks after the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable. All expenses eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement and all in-kind benefits shall be paid or
provided to you promptly in accordance with Morgan Stanley s customary practices applicable to the reimbursement of expenses of such type and the provision of such benefits, but in no event later than December 31 of the calendar year
following the calendar year in  
      9  

which such expenses were incurred or such in-kind benefits were to be provided. The expenses incurred by you in any calendar year that are eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement and the
in-kind benefits provided to you in any other calendar year shall not affect the expenses incurred by you in any other calendar year that are eligible for reimbursement hereunder or the in-kind benefits to be provided to you in any other calendar
year. Your right to receive any reimbursement or in-kind benefits hereunder shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.  
 General information about continuing benefit coverage will be sent to your home address by the Benefit Center two to three weeks following the
Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable. Specific information regarding continuation of your medical benefits will be sent to your home address by Hewitt Associates two to three weeks following termination of coverage.
You have sixty (60) days from the date of receipt to elect COBRA coverage. Inquiries about your benefits should be directed to the Benefit Center at [redacted].  
      10  

Release of Claims    
 In exchange for providing you with these enhanced payments and benefits, you agree to waive all claims against Morgan Stanley, and to release
and forever discharge Morgan Stanley, to the fullest extent permitted by law, from any and all liability for any claims, rights or damages of any kind, whether known or unknown to you, that you may have against Morgan Stanley as of the date of your
execution of this Agreement including, but not limited to, any claim against Morgan Stanley arising under any federal, state or local law or ordinance, any tort, any employment contract, express or implied, any public policy waivable by law, or
arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended, the Equal Pay Act, as amended, the Uniform Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act ( USERRA ), as amended, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 ( ADEA ), as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act ( ADA ), as amended, the Family And Medical Leave Act ( FMLA ), as amended, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
( ERISA ), as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act ( OWBPA ), as amended, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act
( WARN ), as amended, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ( OSHA ), as amended, the New York State Human Rights Law, as amended, New York City Human Rights Law, as amended, New York Labor Act, as amended, New York
Equal Pay Law, as amended, New York  
      11  

Civil Rights Law, as amended, New York Rights of Persons With Disabilities Law, as amended, New York Equal Rights Law, as amended, New York Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as
amended, and any other discrimination or fair housing law, if applicable, and all claims for invasion of privacy, defamation, intentional infliction of emotional distress, injury to reputation, pain and suffering, constructive and wrongful
discharge, retaliation, wages, monetary or equitable relief, vacation pay, award(s), grant(s), or awards under any unvested and/or cancelled equity and/or incentive compensation plan or program, and separation and/or severance pay under any
separation or severance pay plan maintained by Morgan Stanley, any other employee fringe benefits plans, medical plans, or attorneys  fees or any demand to seek discovery of any of the claims, rights or damages previously enumerated herein
(collectively, the  Release of Claims ). This Agreement is not intended to, and does not, release rights or claims that may arise after the date of your execution hereof including without limitation any rights or claims that you may have
to secure enforcement of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, nor any claims that cannot be released hereunder by law. If any claim, charge, complaint or action against Morgan Stanley covered by the Release of Claims is brought by you, for
your benefit or on your behalf, you expressly waive any claim to any form of monetary or other  
      12  

damages to the fullest extent permitted by law, including attorneys  fees and costs, or any other form of personal recovery or relief from Morgan Stanley based upon any such claim, charge,
complaint or action. To the extent you receive any personal or monetary relief from Morgan Stanley based upon any such claim, charge, complaint or action, Morgan Stanley will be entitled to an offset for the payments made pursuant to this Agreement.
You further agree to dismiss with prejudice any pending civil lawsuit or arbitration covered by the Release of Claims.    This Agreement,
however, does not waive any rights of indemnification you may have been granted under the Certificates of Incorporation or Formation, Bylaws or other applicable documents of Morgan Stanley relating to your actions on behalf of Morgan Stanley in the
scope of and during the course of your employment by Morgan Stanley, or any rights to coverage, advancement of expenses, and/or legal fees under any governing D O insurance policy maintained by Morgan Stanley. Nor does anything in this Agreement
impair your rights in any of your Morgan Stanley Wealth Management brokerage or customer accounts or to vested retirement, pension or 401(k) benefits, if any, due you by virtue of your employment by Morgan Stanley, or as a shareholder of Morgan
Stanley. You have also not released your right to seek contribution in the event of any judgment against you and Morgan Stanley finding joint liability. Nor shall any elections, notices or benefits for which you are eligible as a separated employee
of Morgan Stanley be impaired by this Agreement.  
      13  

Confidentiality, Firm Property, Non-Disclosure and Non-Disparagement    
 You also agree that in the course of your employment with Morgan Stanley you have or may have acquired non-public privileged or confidential
information and trade secrets concerning Morgan Stanley s business, operations, legal matters and resolution or settlement thereof, internal investigations, customer and employee information and lists, hiring, staffing and compensation
practices, studies and analyses, plans, funding, financing and methods of doing business whether in hard copy, electronic or other format ( Confidential and Proprietary Information ), and you further agree that it would be damaging to
Morgan Stanley if such Confidential and Proprietary Information were disclosed to any competitor of Morgan Stanley or any third party or person. You understand and agree that all Confidential and Proprietary Information has been divulged to you in
confidence and, except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, you agree: (1) to not disclose or cause or permit to be disclosed directly or indirectly any
Confidential and Proprietary Information to any third party or person; (2) to keep all  
      14  

Confidential and Proprietary Information secret and confidential without limitation in time; and, (3) to not remove Confidential and Proprietary Information from any Morgan Stanley facility
in either original, electronic or copied form; provided however, that Confidential and Proprietary Information does not include any information which is released or generally known to the public other than through your breach of this Agreement, and
shall not include your own personnel or compensation records. Your use of Confidential and Proprietary Information will stop immediately upon the cessation of your working at any Morgan Stanley facility for any reason. Upon execution of this
Agreement, you will immediately deliver to Morgan Stanley any Confidential and Proprietary Information in your possession or control, if any. You will not at any time assert any claim of ownership or other property interest in any such Confidential
and Proprietary Information. Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, you will not disclose directly or indirectly to any person or entity the contents, in whole
or in part, of such Confidential and Proprietary Information.  
      15  

Prior to the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, you further agree to return to
Morgan Stanley any Morgan Stanley equipment and property including, but not limited to, identification materials, computers, laptops, printers, facsimile machines, corporate credit cards, and wireless devices (e.g., mobile phones, SecurIDs,
BlackBerry and similar devices), that you possess or control. You will, however, be provided with a copy of your personal Outlook contact files and calendar as soon as practicable following the Effective Date and you may retain such copy without
violation hereto. You shall further be permitted, without violation hereto, to retain (i) any employment and compensation related documentation; (ii) documents held on account of being a shareholder of Morgan Stanley; or (iii) any
personal effects and personal files of any kind kept in your office.    During the course of your employment with Morgan Stanley, you may
have been instructed by the Legal and Compliance Division ( LCD ) to preserve information, documents or other materials, whether in physical or electronic form, in connection with litigation, investigations, or proceedings. You acknowledge
that you have taken all necessary steps to comply with any notices you received from LCD to preserve such information, documents or materials. Furthermore, you acknowledge that you have notified your supervisor or a member of LCD of the location of
all such information, documents or materials currently in your possession.  
      16  

Unless permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, or until publicly
disclosed by Morgan Stanley, at which point the obligations contained herein shall cease, you also agree that you will not disclose, or cause, or permit to be disclosed in any way the terms of this Agreement or the facts and circumstances
surrounding its execution, or the facts and circumstances relating to any dispute or disagreement you may have, or may believe you have, with Morgan Stanley with respect to your employment, workplace or work environment at and termination from
Morgan Stanley, without limitation in time, except that you may disclose such information to your legal representatives, to your immediate family, or for the purpose of enforcing this Agreement, should that ever be necessary, and further you may
disclose the financial aspects of this Agreement to your financial representatives or accountants or for the purpose of qualifying for a loan provided that all such private parties to whom disclosure is permitted under this paragraph are informed of
the confidentiality provisions of this Agreement and agree to be bound thereby. You may also disclose the restrictive covenants to any prospective future employer, business partner or partners, or search personnel without violation hereto. Further,
this provision is expressly not intended in any way to limit you from disclosing the financial structure and tax aspects of this Agreement to the Internal Revenue Service.  
      17  

Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, you agree to give prompt notice to Morgan Stanley in writing, addressed to Employment Law, Morgan Stanley, Legal and Compliance Division, 1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35th Floor, New York, NY 10020, by telephone
[redacted] and by facsimile [redacted], of any subpoena or judicial, administrative or regulatory inquiry or proceeding, or lawsuit in which you are required or requested to disclose information relating to Morgan Stanley prior to such disclosure
unless any such prior notice requirement is prohibited by law. To the extent reasonably practicable, such written notice must be given to Employment Law within three (3) business days of your receipt of any such request or order so that Morgan
Stanley may take whatever action it may deem necessary or appropriate to prevent such assistance or testimony. You also agree that, to the extent reasonably practicable, you shall provide to Employment Law by facsimile or overnight delivery to the
above address within three (3) business days of your receipt thereof copies of all legal papers and documents served upon you. Additionally, you agree that in the event you are served with such subpoena, court order, directive or other process,
you will make all reasonable effort to meet with Employment Law or its designee in advance of giving such testimony or information in the event you are served with any such subpoena, court order, directive or other process unless any such prior
meeting requirement is prohibited by law.  
      18  

You agree to cooperate with and assist Morgan Stanley in connection with any investigation,
regulatory matter, lawsuit or arbitration in which Morgan Stanley is a subject, target or party and as to which you may have pertinent information. You agree to make yourself reasonably available for preparation for hearings, proceedings or
litigation and for attendance at any pre-trial discovery and trial sessions. Morgan Stanley agrees to make every reasonable effort to provide you with reasonable notice in the event your participation is required.  
 To the extent that you incur any out-of-pocket costs as a result of your fulfillment of your obligations under either of the two preceding
paragraphs, Morgan Stanley agrees to reimburse reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by you as the direct result of your participation, provided that such out-of-pocket costs are supported by appropriate documentation and have prior authorization
of Morgan Stanley. Such costs may include, without limitation, demonstrably lost wages, travel expenses and legal fees to the extent that separate legal representation is reasonably warranted. You further agree to perform all acts and execute any
and all documents that may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph.  
      19  

Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, you also agree that you will not defame or disparage Morgan Stanley or its business or its strategic plans, products, practices, policies, personnel or any other internal Morgan Stanley matter or otherwise speak of
any of the foregoing in a disparaging manner in any medium or to any person or entity without limitation in time. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to: (i) limit in any way your ability to compete fairly with Morgan Stanley in the future or
speak honestly about your career with Morgan Stanley, provided you do so in a manner consistent with the obligations stated herein; (ii) prevent you from conferring in confidence with your legal representatives or testifying truthfully or
making truthful statements or submissions in litigation or other legal, administrative or regulatory proceedings or internal investigations; or (iii) correcting any incorrect or disparaging statements concerning your employment with or
separation from Morgan Stanley issued by Morgan Stanley s Board of Directors or Operating Committee members in their official capacity as such.  
      20  

Morgan Stanley agrees to inform the members of its Operating Committee as of the Effective Date
of this Agreement and for so long as he/she remains an employee of Morgan Stanley, not to defame or disparage you or otherwise speak of you in a disparaging manner in any medium or to any person or entity. Notwithstanding this provision, Morgan
Stanley may confer in confidence with its human resources, legal and financial representatives.    Provided that you direct all prospective
employment inquiries to http://www.theworknumber.com and provide the following information: Morgan Stanley Employer Code [redacted] and your social security number, Morgan Stanley will only provide dates of employment and positions held.  
 You also agree that, unless you have prior written authorization from Morgan Stanley, you will not disclose, participate in the disclosure or
allow disclosure of any new information about Morgan Stanley or its present or former clients, executives or other employees, or Board members, or legal matters involving Morgan Stanley and resolution or settlement thereof, or any aspects of your
employment with Morgan Stanley or of the termination of such employment, to any reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity, including, without limitation, books, articles or writings of any other kind, as well as film, videotape,
television or other broadcasts, audio tape, electronic/Internet or blog format or any other medium. You further agree that you will not use or take any action likely to result in the use of any of Morgan Stanley s names or any abbreviation
thereof in connection with any publication to the general public in any medium in a manner that suggests, directly or indirectly, endorsement by or a business connection to Morgan Stanley or appears to leverage the Morgan Stanley brand.  
      21  

Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude you from disclosing the fact of your employment with
Morgan Stanley, positions held and job duties or other information that would typically appear on a resume or curriculum vitae.  
   Exceptions    
 Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit or restrict you from lawfully (A) initiating communications directly with, cooperating with,
providing relevant information to or otherwise assisting in an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), FINRA, the EEOC, or any other governmental or regulatory body or official(s) or self-regulatory organization
( SRO ) regarding a possible violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation; (B) responding to any inquiry from any such governmental or regulatory body or official or SRO or governmental authority, including an inquiry about
this Agreement or its underlying facts or circumstances; or (C) testifying, participating or otherwise assisting in any action or proceeding relating to a possible violation of a law, rule or regulation. Further, nothing in this Agreement
requires you to notify  
      22  

Morgan Stanley of any such communications, cooperation, assistance, responses to inquiries, testimony or participation as described in the preceding sentence. In addition, nothing in this
Agreement precludes you from benefiting from classwide injunctive relief awarded in any fair employment practices case brought by any governmental agency, provided such relief does not result in your receipt of any monetary benefit or equivalent
thereof from Morgan Stanley. You acknowledge and agree, however, that you are waiving any right to recover any monetary damages or any other form of personal relief from Morgan Stanley based upon any such action, investigation or proceeding.  
   Further Promises    
 You agree to comply with the non-solicitation and all other applicable provisions in the Notice and Non-Solicitation Agreement dated as of
February 3, 2010 (the  Notice and Non-Solicitation Agreement ). Nothing in this Agreement supersedes or in any way modifies your obligations under or any of the terms of the Notice and Non-Solicitation Agreement.  
 In the event you breach or threaten to breach any of the provisions contained in any confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-disparagement or
non-solicitation provisions in this Agreement, you acknowledge that such breach or threatened breach shall cause irreparable harm to Morgan Stanley, entitling Morgan Stanley, at its option, to seek immediate injunctive relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction, without waiver of any other rights or remedies from a court of law or equity.  
      23  

You acknowledge that this Agreement has been executed voluntarily by you. You are urged to and
acknowledge that you have had the opportunity to obtain the advice of any attorney or other representative of your choice, unrelated to Morgan Stanley, prior to executing this Agreement. Further, you acknowledge that you have a full understanding of
the terms of this Agreement which may not be changed or altered except by a writing signed by both Morgan Stanley and you.    You agree and
acknowledge that: (i) you have been given the Twenty-One Day Period to consider executing this Agreement and seven (7) days from the date of your execution of this Agreement within which to revoke it (the seven (7) day period defined
as the  Agreement Revocation Period ) and (ii) you had sufficient time in which to consider and understand the Agreement, and to consult with your attorney or other representative of your choice prior to executing the Agreement. If
you execute the Agreement prior to the end of the Twenty-One Day Period that Morgan Stanley has provided for you, you agree and acknowledge that: (i) your execution was a knowing and voluntary waiver of your right to consider this Agreement for
the full Twenty-One days;  
      24  

(ii) you had seven (7) days from the date of your execution of this Agreement within which to revoke it (the seven (7) day period defined as the  Agreement Revocation
Period  and, (iii) you had sufficient time in which to consider and understand the Agreement, and to review it with your attorney or other representative of your choice. Your executed Agreement must be returned to Morgan Stanley HR
Operations, 1585 Broadway, 18th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Any revocation of this Agreement must be in writing and returned to the same address, via certified U.S. Mail, return receipt requested. In the event that you revoke this Agreement, you
acknowledge that you will not be entitled to receive, and agree not to accept, any payments or benefits under this Agreement. You agree that your acceptance of any such payments or benefits will constitute an acknowledgment that you did not revoke
the Agreement. This Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until the Agreement Revocation Period has expired.     BY SIGNING
THIS AGREEMENT AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU ARE KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY WAIVING AND RELEASING ANY AND ALL RIGHTS YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST MORGAN STANLEY UP TO THE DATE OF YOUR EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT UNDER THE AGE DISCRIMINATION
IN EMPLOYMENT ACT, THE OLDER WORKERS BENEFIT PROTECTION ACT AND ALL OTHER APPLICABLE DISCRIMINATION LAWS, STATUTES, ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS.   
      25  

The Agreement is the entire agreement between you and Morgan Stanley and supersedes any and all
oral and written agreements between Morgan Stanley and you on the topics covered herein, except any Arbitration Agreement, Notice and Non-Solicitation Agreement, and any award certificates and any other award documentation governing any outstanding
incentive compensation. No one shall be bound by anything not expressed herein. This Agreement is intended solely for the purpose stated herein and does not constitute and should not be construed to be an admission of liability by Morgan Stanley or
you. This Agreement shall be binding on both Morgan Stanley and you. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, PDF or facsimile copies and all shall be effective and binding as an original.  
 This Agreement shall be interpreted for all purposes consistent with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its choice of law
rules. If any clause or portion of any clause of this Agreement should ever be determined to be unenforceable, it is agreed that this will not affect the enforceability of the remainder of such clause or of any other clause or the remainder of this
Agreement.  
      26  

This Agreement may be amended, modified or changed only by a written instrument executed by you
and Morgan Stanley. Any waiver to be effective must be in writing and signed by the party against whom it is being enforced.    All notices
and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand, by PDF or facsimile to the other party or mailed by overnight mail or registered or certified mail to the other party, return receipt requested, postage prepaid;
shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt or in the case of registered or certified mail, upon the earlier of the actual receipt or two business days following the date postmarked; and shall be addressed as follows:  

If to you: 
    
 Gregory Fleming  

New York, New York  

With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:  

Steven G. Eckhaus, Esq.  

Cadwalader, Wickersham   Taft LLP  

1 World Financial Center  

New York, New York 10281  

If to Morgan Stanley: 
    
 Alexa B. Pappas  

Legal   Compliance Division  

1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35 th  Floor  

New York, New York 10020  
 
      27  

or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.

Very truly yours,  

/s/ Jeffrey Brodsky  
 
 Jeffrey Brodsky  
 
 Managing Director  

AGREED AND ACCEPTED:  

/s/ Gregory Fleming  
 
 Gregory Fleming  

DATE: 
   
   January 22, 2016   
 
      28  

</EX-10.41>

<EX-12>
 8
 d48186dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12   
  Morgan Stanley      Ratio of
Earnings to Fixed Charges      and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends   
  (dollars in millions)   
  (unaudited)       
   Income (loss) before income taxes does not include dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory
redemption, income (loss) on discontinued operations, noncontrolling interests and income or loss from equity investees.    Fixed charges
consist of interest cost, including interest on deposits, interest on discontinued operations, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, and that portion of rent expense to be representative of the interest factor.  
 Fixed charges do not include interest expense on uncertain tax liabilities as the Company records these amounts within the Provision for
income taxes.    The preferred stock dividends amount represents pre-tax earnings required to cover dividends on preferred stock.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 d48186dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21   
  Morgan Stanley      List of
Subsidiaries      As of 12/31/2015       

Company  
    
  Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation   

Morgan Stanley  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Bayfine DE Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Bayfine UK  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Belmondo LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Cauca LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Dean Witter Capital Corporation  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Dean Witter Realty Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Realty Management Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Dean Witter Reynolds Venture Equities Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Early Adopter Fund Manager Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Fuegos LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Fundlogic (Jersey) Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   FV-I, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Japan Core Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Jolter Investments Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Altabridge Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Amanu LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Atlas, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Biscay LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Epsilon Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Alpha Investments LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Aegir Services International Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Cayman Energy Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Ghent Energy Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Granite Wash LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Heidmar Group Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Houston Bayport Energy LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bay Shore LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Espana), S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group Czech Republic s.r.o.  
    
 Czech Republic  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group Energy Europe Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Clean Development, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Renewables Development I (Cayman) Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Commodities Investment Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Energy Capital Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Energy Development Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   SEM Royalties LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Wellbore Capital, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Permian LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS TELA LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS TGX LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Power Development Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   American Chemicals, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Solar Canada Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Solar Holdings Canada ULC  
    
 Canada  
 
   MS Solar Solutions Canada ULC  
    
 Canada  
 
   MS Solar Investments LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Solar Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Solar Solutions Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Naniwa Energy LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Naniwa Terminal LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Pioneer Energy Holdings Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Pioneer Energy Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Power Contract Financing II, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Rolympus (UK) Commodities (Holdings) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   South Eastern Electric Development Corporation  
    
 Delaware  
 
   South Eastern Generating Corporation  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Sparta Energy Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   TransMontaigne Canada Holdings Inc.  
    
 Canada  

TMG Canadian Holdings L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Olco Petroleum Group ULC (OLCO)  
    
 Canada  
 
   TransMontaigne Marketing Canada Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   Utility Contract Funding II, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital I Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Management, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   GHY Capital II B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Hilo Investment Fund  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Flexible Agreements Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   PI Co-Invest LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Prime Dealer Services Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   V2 Holdings (USA), Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Gee Street Records, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   V2 Records, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Products LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Delta Holdings LLC  
    
 New York  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.  
    
 Federal Charter  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association  
    
 Federal Charter  
 
   Morgan Stanley NLE, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Group Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Financing LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley 1585 Broadway LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley 750 Building Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Broadway 522 Fifth JV LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   GHY Capital B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   MS Harrison LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Alternative Investments Mgr, Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Ceres Managed Futures LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Consulting Group Advisory Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   LM Falcon Investment Strategies LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Peregrine Investments, LLC  
    
 Maryland  
 
   Morgan Stanley AI GP LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Cayman Financing Services  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney FA Notes Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Financing LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings (UK) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Insurance Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   SBHU Life Agency, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Private Management II LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Private Management LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Venture Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategies II LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategies LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Swiss Holdings GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Switzerland) AG  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Australia Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Bow Lane Nominees Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Pettingell LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSCP III, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital REIT Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Saxon Advance Receivables Company, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital REIT IV Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Community Investments LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Impact Mezzanine GP LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Impact SBIC LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Credit Products Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Darica Funding, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ascension Loan Vehicle, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Dean Witter International Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley (DWRRBS) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  

Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Durango LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Amba Alagi LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Inter Capital Alliance Asset Management Co., Ltd.  
    
 Thailand  
 
   Inter Capital Alliance Holding Limited  
    
 Thailand  
 
   MS China 3 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS China 5 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSPI Hong Kong 1 Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Philippine Asset Investment (SPV-AMC), Inc.  
    
 The Philippines  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Europa LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Himalia Cayman Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Sinope Cayman Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Adrastea Netherlands B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley IO Cayman Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Iocaste Cayman Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Pasiphae Netherlands B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Holdings S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Europe Holdings S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Holdings S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Holdings II S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg International Holdings S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Metis (Gibraltar) Limited  
    
 Gibraltar  
 
   MS GT Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   MS SK Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fixed Income Ventures Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Principal Investments, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MHC Co-Invest Genpar  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MHC Co-Invest, LP  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Europe LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Netherlands BV  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   MS China 11 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS China 8 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS China 4 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSPI Mauritius 1 Limited  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Project Stone Holdings, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Viatel Investor HoldCo LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Eaux Vives Water Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Bermuda) Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Cayman) Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Hong Kong) Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Ireland) Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services (UK) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fund Services USA LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSGEM, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Funding Trust  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hedging Co. Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Psylon Holding Limited  
    
 Cyprus  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Archimedes Investments Cooperatieve U.A.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   European Principal Assets Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Limited Liability Company Morgan Stanley Ukraine  
    
 Ukraine  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Israel) Limited  
    
 Israel  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Thailand) Limited  
    
 Thailand  
 
   Morgan Stanley AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Morgan Stanley Advantage Services Pvt. Ltd.  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings I Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Hong Kong) Holdings Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) IV Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1238 Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Limited Liability Company Rinocenter  
    
 Russian Federation  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Securities Products LLC  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia (Taiwan) Ltd.  
    
 Republic of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Products Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Securities Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  

Morgan Stanley Swallow Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Hampshire Trading B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Lancashire Trading B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Wiltshire Trading B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Funding Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Yorkshire Trading B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Volmar Holdings Limited  
    
 Cyprus  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1239 Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Information Technology (Shanghai) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) III LLC  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte Ltd  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Singapore) Pte.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Gateway Securities JSC  
    
 Vietnam  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Company  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Labuan Investment Bank Limited  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Japan Group, Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Holdings Jersey Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Norfolk Trading B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   MSDW-JL Holdings II Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Remora Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSJL Holdings 4682 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSJL Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Japan Holdings Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Jipang Mortgage Finance Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group Japan Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital K.K.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Credit Products Japan Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   TM, Limited  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Japan) Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Japan Business Group Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley Japan Group Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   MS Japan REIT Holding KK  
    
 Japan  
 
   MS CYM Preferred Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSJS Preferred YK  
    
 Japan  
 
   MSDW Birkdale Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSDW Muirfield Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific Services Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asset Management S.A.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Australia Finance Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bank AG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Morgan Stanley Business Consulting (Shanghai) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Canada Limited  
    
 Canada  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital (Luxembourg) S.A.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital, S.A. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Hong Kong Holdings Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading (China) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hungary Analytics Limited  
    
 Hungary  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Group (Europe)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Angel Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bramley Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Finance (C.I.) Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategic Funding Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   OOO Morgan Stanley Bank  
    
 Russian Federation  
 
   V2 Music (Holdings) Limited (In Members  Voluntary liquidation)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Group  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Amalthea UK Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investments (UK)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cabot 38 Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley (France) SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Morgan Stanley Client Securities Nominees Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Denmark) ApS  
    
 Denmark  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services (Sweden) AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Morgan Stanley Havel GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Morgan Stanley Mosel GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Morgan Stanley Humboldt Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Clearcreek, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Morgan Stanley Kochi Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  

Morgan Stanley Waterloo Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Langton Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Investments (Luxembourg)  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Corporate Holdings (Luxembourg)  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Spain S.L.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Malta) Limited  
    
 Malta  
 
   Morgan Stanley Grund S.a.r.L  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Portugal), Unipessoal LDA  
    
 Portugal  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Investments (UK) Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (DIFC) Limited  
    
 United Arab Emirates  
 
   Morgan Stanley Heythorp Investments  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Holding (Netherlands) B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Global Equity High Yield Fund B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Longcross Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Cooper Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Netherlands) B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Drake II Investments Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Maple Investments Limited (In Members  Voluntary liquidation)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Montrose Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Rivelino Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Dolor Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Tostao Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Silvermere Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bowline Limited (In Members  Voluntary liquidation)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Northcote Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Shavano Cooperatieve U.A.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited  
    
 Republic of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Turnberry Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Montgomerie Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Derivative Services (Luxembourg) S.a r.l  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Langtree Investments B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Mallard Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Millbrae Investments B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   Morstan Nominees Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley   Co. Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   East Sussex Financing Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Cottenden Financing Unlimited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management (ACD) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Securities Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services (UK) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Pension Trustee Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Trustee Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Wertpapiere GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Consultancy (Shanghai) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Consultancy (Shanghai) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investments (Mauritius) Limited  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Morgan Stanley Jubilee Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Financing II LP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Cadzand III Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Management Service (Shanghai) Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Elderslie Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Services Mauritius  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Capital Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Securities Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Financial Services Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley India Services Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties India Real Estate Management Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley Solutions India Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Morgan Stanley Menkul Degerler A.S.  
    
 Turkey  
 
   Morgan Stanley M xico, Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Morgan Stanley Middle East Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Saudi Arabia  
    
 Saudi Arabia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Pacific Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  

Morgan Stanley (China) Private Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd.  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Hangzhou Haergai Investment Consultancy Partnership Entity (Limited Partnership)  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Hangzhou Morgan Stanley Investment Consulting Partnership Enterprise, L.P.  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Consultancy (Beijing) Company Limited  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Pacific Services Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Poggio Secco Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Alpino Investments Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Clare S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley San Donato S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Syrah Two Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Donegan Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Management Korea, Ltd.  
    
 Republic of Korea  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Morgan Stanley South Africa (Proprietary) Limited  
    
 South Africa  
 
   Morgan Stanley Spanish Holdings S.L.U  
    
 Spain  
 
   Morgan Stanley S.V., S.A.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Morgan Stanley Trading Beteiligungs-GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   MS China 16 Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Equity Financing Services (Luxembourg) S.A.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   MS Gamma Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSAM/Kokusai (Cayman Islands), Inc.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSAM/Kokusai II (Cayman Islands), Inc.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSL Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   PT. Morgan Stanley Asia Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   PT. Morgan Stanley Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Australia) Securities Holdings Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Australia Securities Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Australia Securities (Nominee) Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Australia Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Finance S. A.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Holdings  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Financing I LP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Financing I S.a r.l  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Insurance Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   Peconic Indemnity Company  
    
 Arizona  
 
   Morgan Stanley Latin America Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Banco Morgan Stanley S.A.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Morgan Stanley Administradora de Carteiras S.A.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Morgan Stanley Corretora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios S.A.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Morgan Stanley Uruguay Ltda.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Morgan Stanley Uruguay Ltda.  
    
 Uruguay  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Financing II S.a r.l  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Reinsurance Ltd.  
    
 Bermuda  
 
   MSDW Investment Holdings (US) LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Trader  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Corporate Trader  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Weser GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   MSDW Investment Holdings (UK) Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   MSDW Investments (Cayman) Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSDWIH Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley AIP Funding Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Alternative Investments LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Asia-SMA GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Brickyard GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Gateway II GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Global Diversified VI GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Global Impact I GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Global Income I GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Mbar SLP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP MPI Partners GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP Phoenix II GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Flint Capital Partners GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Flint Capital Partners SLP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   GPF Private Equity GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   GTB Capital Partners GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley AIP (Cayman) GP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley (International) GP Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley AIP Falconer 2010 GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley AIP GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   AIP OPPORTUNISTIC SECONDARIES I SLP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Alternative Investment Partners LP  
    
 Delaware  

Liquid Markets Fund II SPV LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Premium Partners Fund SPV LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Opportunities Fund 2006 LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Tactical II SLP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley AIP Phoenix 2009 GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley EPMF I GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley GDOF GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley GSOF GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley GSOF SLP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley GSOF II GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley PMF III GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Markets Fund Employee Investors III LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley PMF IV GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley PMF IV SLP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley PMF V GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley PMF V SLP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley SCRSIC Strategic Partnership Fund GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc  
    
 Pennsylvania  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fixed Income GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Seed Holdings, Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Fund II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Life Holding Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Mayak Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC  
    
 New York  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asset Capital Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Saxon Capital, Inc.  
    
 Maryland  
 
   Saxon Asset Securities Company  
    
 Virginia  
 
   Saxon Capital Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   SCI Services, Inc.  
    
 Virginia  
 
   Saxon Funding Management LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Saxon Securitized Assets LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc.  
    
 Texas  
 
   Saxon Mortgage, Inc.  
    
 Virginia  
 
   Morgan Stanley Municipal Funding Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Overseas Services (Jersey) Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley Portfolio Management LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Principal Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   SPV Columbus Srl ( in liquidazione)  
    
 Italy  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Advisor, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREA Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREA Holdings, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREA LL Holdings, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding Partner, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate F International Funding, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Moon Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Crescent Real Estate Capital GP, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Crescent Real Estate Capital, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   One Village Place LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   DBFLA Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF II-CO, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Realty Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Brooks Harvey   Co., Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties France SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties Germany GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   MSP China Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties (China) Co., Ltd  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Morgan Stanley Properties Advisory Corp. Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Beijing Kaili Assets Servicing Co., Ltd  
    
 People s Rep. of China  
 
   Tokyo Realty Investment Company II  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Renewables Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Carson Solar I LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MF Mesa Lane LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Renewable Development Fund LLC  
    
 Delaware  

NaturEner USA, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Energy Canada Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Alberta Wind Holdings 1 Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Alberta Wind Holdings 2 Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Wild Rose 1 Energy Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Wild Rose 2 Energy Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Prairie Home 1 Energy Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Prairie Home 2 Energy Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Wild Rose 3 Energy Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   NaturEner Golden Prairie Wind Energy, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Meadow Lark Wind Energy, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Montana Wind Energy 2 LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Glacier Wind Energy 2, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Montana Wind Holding, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Glacier Financing, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Montana Wind Energy, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NATURENER GLACIER WIND ENERGY 1, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Power Watch, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Rim Rock Financing, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Montana Wind Rim Rock, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Rim Rock Wind Energy, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Tie Line, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Wind Watch, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Operations, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   NaturEner Red Creek Wind Energy, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Third Planet Windpower, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Loraine Windpark Project, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Third Planet Renewables, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   TPW Madison, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Wind LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Greenrock Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Wind II LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Wind Joint Venture LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   A4 Wind 1 LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   A4 Wind 2 LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Gear Wind LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Solar Star California III, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Solar Star California IX, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Solar Star California V, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Solar Star California VI, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Solar Star WMT I, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Risk Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley SECAP Funding, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Secured Financing LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Inversiones Sudamerica Uno Ltda  
    
 Chile  
 
   Morgan Stanley MSSF LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Nova Scotia) Co.  
    
 Canada  
 
   MSSFG (SPV-AMC), Inc.  
    
 The Philippines  
 
   Tenedora Dalia, S.A. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Ventura Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ventura Holdings NJ, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ventura AC LLC  
    
 New Jersey  
 
   Ventura Property Management, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ventura Ohio, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ventura Utah, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Ventura Opportunities, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Canada Holding Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Services Canada Corp.  
    
 Canada  
 
   Morgan Stanley Special Situations Group Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Syrah One Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Tindur LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Snowdon Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Finance LLC (f/k/a Morgan Stanley Tower, LLC)  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Venture Capital III, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Venture Partners III, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Venture Investors III, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Venture Partners III, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   The Morgan Stanley Venture Partners Entrepreneur Fund, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morstan Development Company, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS 10020, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Debt Opportunities Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Equity Products (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust  
    
 Delaware  

Morgan Stanley Moselle S.a.r.l  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Norton Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Holdings S.a.r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Kadarka Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Hawk I LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Holdings Incorporated  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley ARS Funding Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Partners VI GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Capital Partners VI GP LP  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners Cayman Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley HFP Investment Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley IMDCP Funding, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure II Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure II GP LP  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Partners II Investors C GP  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Infrastructure SLP, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   CP Infrastructure SLP, L.P.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSIP Agatha Co-Investment Alternate GP, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSIP Agatha Co-Investment GP Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Merchant Banking Insurance Holdings, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Merchant Banking Insurance Company  
    
 Vermont  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia IV, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia IV, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSPEA SLP IV, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Securities Global Best Ideas GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Alternatives Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Partners V Funding LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Alternatives Funding Partner, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Alternatives Holding C Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Alternatives Holding C (Cayman) Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Alternatives Holding D Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS ARS Holding A Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS ARS Holding B Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Capital Partners Adviser Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Credit Partners GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Credit Partners GP L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Credit Partners Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Credit Partners II GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Credit Partners II GP L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Energy Partners GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Energy Partners GP LP  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Expansion Capital GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Expansion Capital GP LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Expansion Credit GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Expansion Credit GP, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSCP V GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Capital Partners V GP L.P.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSCP V Offshore Investors GP Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Capital Partners V LP  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSGFI Management Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSIM GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Private Investment Partners Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Private Investment Partners GP Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   TAM Investment Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Lion LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Beta Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Gamma Investments  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Portland Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   MS Low Income Housing Corporation  
    
 Delaware  
 
   BMC NAB Trust Investment Fund LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley New Markets, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets I LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets II LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets IV LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets IX LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets VIII LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS New Markets X LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Georgia Tax Credit Fund III LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Pinol II LLC  
    
 Delaware  

Wiwili IV LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Viento LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Low Income Housing II Corporation  
    
 Delaware  
 
   CTH LIHTC Fund 97-3A, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Multistate LIHTC Holdings II, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Affordable Housing LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS GSP Legacy LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Taishan Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Pegau LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Millport I LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Elderslie Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Ras Dashen Cayman Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Esporta Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Bayview Holding Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Esporta Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Esporta Financing Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Eden Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Financing III LP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   MS Rosebank LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Bondi Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strand Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Cornelia Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MS Melville LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Structured Asset Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Venture Capital Holding Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSAM Holdings II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSCP III Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Capital Partners IV, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Capital Partners IV LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW CPIV Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW International Employee Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Nederland BV  
    
 The Netherlands  
 
   MSDW Offshore Equity Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   FUNDLOGIC SAS  
    
 France  
 
   FundLogic Global Solutions (Ireland) Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Alzette S.a.r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Euro Financing (Luxembourg)  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Morgan Stanley Eder S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Global S.a r.l  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Trading GP Limited  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Equity Trading (Jersey) L.P.  
    
 Jersey, Channel Is.  
 
   Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings II Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley GFD Proprietary Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Global Fund Derivatives Hedge Holdings Luxembourg S.A.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Spad Investments S.a.r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Morane Investments S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Curtiss Investments S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   MS Equity Finance Services I (Cayman) Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSDW PE/VC Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Holdings, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Manager, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSRESS II GP Co-Investment Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSDW Strategic Ventures Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Venture Partners IV, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW Venture Partners IV, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSDW VP IV Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSEOF, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSEOF Management, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSEOF Manager S.a.r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   MSIT Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSPEA Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF II, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF III, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF III, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV Domestic-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV Domestic-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV International-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF IV International-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF Real Estate Advisor, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Bolt REI B.V.  
    
 The Netherlands  

Morgan Stanley SGR S.p.A.  
    
 Italy  
 
   MSREF VI, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VI International-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VI, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VI International-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VI International-TE, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREI Post Co-Investment GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VII, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VII Global (Cayman) II, Ltd.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSREF VII Global-L.P., L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VII GP L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   CP Real Estate Fund VII SLP-A L.P.  
    
 Canada  
 
   CP Real Estate Fund VII SLP-B L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VII L.P.  
    
 Canada  
 
   MSREF VII Global-GP (Cayman), L.P.  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   MSREF VII Global-GP (U.S.), L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VII Global-GP Greenwich, L.P.  
    
 Canada  
 
   MSREF VII Global-GP, L.P.  
    
 Canada  
 
   MSREF VIII, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VIII GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VIII Global-GP, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VIII Global Co-Investment GP, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   North Haven Real Estate Fund VIII Global Co-Investment, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF VIII Global Co-Investment No. 1 GP, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREI SMA GP LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V Funding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V Funding Partner, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V International Funding, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V International-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V International-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V U.S.-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V Special U.S., L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V U.S., L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investors V U.S., L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSP Co-Investment Partnership V, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSP Co-Investment Partnership V-A, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSP Real Estate Fund V, L.P.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREF V U.S.-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSREI Holding, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSRESS III, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-LP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSRESS III Manager, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSRESS III Monroe GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSRESS III Opportunities Fund - GP, L.L.C.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSUH Holdings I, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSUH Holdings II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS SP Urban Horizons, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Urban Horizons, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSVP 2002 Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSVP 2002, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MSVP 2002 Fund, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Providence DE Holdings Co.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Strategic Investments I, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   MS Strategic (Mauritius) Limited  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Strategic Investments II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Sycamore II, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 10
 d48186dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1   
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements (as amended) of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) of our reports
dated February 23, 2016, relating to the consolidated financial statements of the Company, and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley for
the year ended December 31, 2015:     
    /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   
 New York, New York    February 23, 2016  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 d48186dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   
 Certification    I, James P. Gorman, certify that:

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 23, 2016      

/s/ JAMES P. GORMAN   
 
 James P. Gorman  
 
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 d48186dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2   
 Certification    I, Jonathan Pruzan, certify that:

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 23, 2016      

/s/ JONATHAN PRUZAN   
 
 Jonathan Pruzan  
 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 d48186dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1   
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
 In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James P. Gorman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      

1. 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

2. 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ JAMES P. GORMAN   
 
 James P. Gorman  
 
 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Dated: February 23, 2016  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 d48186dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2   
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
 In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jonathan Pruzan, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      

1. 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

2. 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ JONATHAN PRUZAN   
 
 Jonathan Pruzan  
 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
 
  Dated: February 23, 2016  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 ms-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 ms-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 ms-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 ms-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 ms-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 ms-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

