<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170227_10-K_edgar_data_895421_0001193125-17-059212_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>52869893</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1418528</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2830657</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>17414379</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>24488910</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5399392</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>473</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-17-059212.hdr.sgml : 20170227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170227170504
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-17-059212
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		183
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		17642870

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-761-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980326

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-17-059212.txt : 20170227

10-K
 1
 d328282d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
 Washington, D.C. 20549    FORM  10-K     Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
  For the year ended December 31, 2016   
 Commission File Number  1-11758       

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class 
    
   Name of exchange on 
 which registered   
 
   Common Stock, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of Floating Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series E, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series F, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of 6.625%  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series G, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series I, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share
of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series K, $0.01 par value  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Global Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Fixed Rate  Step-Up  Senior Notes Due 2026 of Morgan Stanley Finance LLC (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto)  
    
   New York Stock Exchange   
 
   Market Vectors ETNs due March 31, 2020 (2 issuances); Market
Vectors ETNs due April 30, 2020 (2 issuances)  
    
   NYSE Arca, Inc.   
 
   Morgan Stanley Cushing    MLP High Income Index ETNs due March 21, 2031  
    
   NYSE Arca, Inc.   
   Indicate by check mark if Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    YES       NO       Indicate by check mark if Registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.    YES       NO     
 Indicate by check mark whether Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    YES       NO       Indicate by check mark whether
the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation  S-T  during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files).    YES       NO     
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K 
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this  Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether
the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a  non-accelerated  filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated
filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule  12b-2  of the Exchange Act. (Check one):      

Large Accelerated Filer     
   
   Accelerated Filer      
 
   Non-Accelerated Filer     
   
   Smaller reporting company      
 
   (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
   Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule  12b-2).    YES       NO        As of
June 30, 2016, the aggregate market value of the common stock of Registrant held by  non-affiliates  of Registrant was approximately $47,247,843,093. This calculation does not reflect a determination that
persons are affiliates for any other purposes.    As of January 31, 2017, there were 1,866,164,899 shares of Registrant s common
stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.     Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Portions of Registrant s definitive proxy statement
for its 2017 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K.   

Table of Contents  

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM  10-K   
  for the year ended December 31, 2016       

Table of Contents 
   
 Page  

Part I    

Item 1.    
Business   
   
 1  
 
    Overview   
   
 1  
 
    Business Segments   
   
 1  
 
    Competition   
   
 1  
 
    Supervision and Regulation   
   
 2  
 
    Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley   
   
 10  
 
    Item 1A. Risk
Factors   
   
 12  
 
    Item 1B. 
Unresolved Staff Comments   
   
 22  
 
    Item 2.    
Properties   
   
 22  
 
    Item 3.    
Legal Proceedings   
   
 23  
 
    Item 4.    
Mine Safety Disclosures   
   
 28  
 
     Part II    

Item 5.    
Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
   
 29  
 
    Item 6.    
Selected Financial Data   
   
 31  
 
    Item 7.    
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
   
 32  
 
    Introduction   
   
 32  
 
    Executive Summary   
   
 33  
 
    Business Segments   
   
 37  
 
    Supplemental Financial Information and
Disclosures   
   
 52  
 
    Accounting Development Updates   
   
 53  
 
    Critical Accounting Policies   
   
 54  
 
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   
   
 58  
 
    Item 7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
   
 75  
 
    Item 8.    
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
   
 94  
 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm   
   
 94  
 
    Consolidated Income Statements   
   
 95  
 
    Consolidated Comprehensive Income
Statements   
   
 96  
 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets   
   
 97  
 
    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total
Equity   
   
 98  
 
    Consolidated Cash Flow Statements   
   
 99  
 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

100  
 
      1. Introduction and Basis of
Presentation   
   
 100  
 
      2. Significant Accounting
Policies   
   
 101  
 
      3. Fair Values   
   
 112  

4. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   
   
 129  
 
      5. Investment Securities   
   
 136  
 
      6. Collateralized Transactions   

140  
 
      7. Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses   
   
 143  
 
      8. Equity Method Investments   
   
 147  
 
      9. Goodwill and Intangible
Assets   
   
 148   
      i  

Table of Contents  

ii  

Table of Contents  

   Forward-Looking Statements   
 We have included in or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or
other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only
our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.    The nature of our
business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements, and it is possible that our actual
results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without
limitation):      

the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events, including the United Kingdom s
(the  U.K. ) anticipated withdrawal from the European Union (the  E.U.      

sovereign risk;     

the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and
commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets and energy markets;     

the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including with respect to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act )) or changes thereto, regulation (including capital, leverage, funding, liquidity and tax requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary policies established by central
banks and financial regulators, and changes to global trade policies), and other legal and regulatory actions in the United States of America ( U.S. ) and worldwide;     

the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates,
currency values and other market indices;     

the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured
short-term and long-term debt;     

investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;     

the performance and results of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other
strategic arrangements;     

our reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry;     

inflation, natural disasters, pandemics and acts of war or terrorism;     

the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, central banks,
regulators and self-regulatory organizations;     

the effectiveness of our risk management policies;     

technological changes instituted by us, our competitors or counterparties and technological risks, including
cybersecurity, business continuity and related operational risks;     

our ability to provide innovative products and services and execute our strategic objectives; and

other risks and uncertainties detailed under  Business Competition  and
 Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere throughout this report.     
 Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are
made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further disclosures we may make in future filings of our Annual Reports on Form  10-K,  Quarterly Reports on Form  10-Q  and Current Reports on Form  8-K  and any amendments thereto or in future press releases or other public statements.  
      iii  

Table of Contents  

   Available Information   
 We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 SEC ). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at    1-800-SEC-0330    for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC s internet site,  www.sec.gov.    
 Our internet site is  www.morganstanley.com . You can access our Investor Relations webpage at    www.morganstanley.com/about-us-ir   . We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on  Form 10-Q,  Current Reports on  Form 8-K  and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the
SEC s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities filed by our directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  
 You can access information about our corporate governance at
   www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance.    Our Corporate Governance webpage includes:      

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;     

Amended and Restated Bylaws;     

Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee, Nominating
and Governance Committee, Operations and Technology Committee, and Risk Committee;     

Corporate Governance Policies;     

Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;     

Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;     

Policy Regarding Corporate Political Activities;     

Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;     

Equity Ownership Commitment;     

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;     

Code of Conduct;     

Integrity Hotline information; and     

Environmental and Social Policies.     
 Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC
( NYSE ) on our internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036
  (212-761-4000).   The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  
      iv  

Table of Contents  

Part I   
    Item 
1. Business        Overview   
 We are a global financial services firm that, through our subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages and
distributes capital for, governments, institutions and individuals. We were originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and our predecessor companies date back to 1924. We are a financial holding company
( FHC ) regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). We conduct our business from our headquarters in
and around New York City, our regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and our principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. As of December 31, 2016, we had 55,311 employees worldwide. Unless the
context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley,  the  Firm,   us,   we,  and  our  mean Morgan Stanley (the  Parent Company ) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  
 Financial information concerning us, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2016,
December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in Part II, Item 8.  
    Business Segments   
 We are a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of our business segments Institutional
Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we provide a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments,
financial institutions and individuals. Additional information related to our business segments, respective clients, and products and services provided is included under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7.       Competition   
 All aspects of our businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete in the U.S. and globally for clients, market
share and human talent. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that

require effective resource allocation in order for us to remain competitive. Our competitive position depends on our reputation and the quality and consistency of our long-term investment
performance. Our ability to sustain or improve our competitive position also depends substantially on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. We compete with commercial
banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary
services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. In addition, restrictive laws and regulations applicable to certain U.S. financial services institutions, such as Morgan Stanley, which may prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions
and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, can put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in certain businesses not subject to these same requirements. See also   Supervision and Regulation  below and
 Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.      Institutional Securities and Wealth Management    
 Our competitive position for our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability
and relative pricing. We compete directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there is increased competition driven by
established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models (including innovative uses of technology) competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services.  
 Our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by our credit ratings), to commit and to deploy capital
efficiently, particularly in our capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects our competitive position. Corporate clients may request that we provide loans or lending commitments in
connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to continue.    It is possible that competition may
become even more intense as we continue to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain geographies or products. Many of these firms have
the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on our businesses. In addition, our business is subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad, while
certain of our competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage.

Table of Contents  

We continue to experience intense price competition in some of our businesses. In particular,
the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets
will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. It is also possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing
prices (in the form of commissions or pricing).      Investment Management    
 Our ability to compete successfully in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including our reputation, investment
objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to
distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. Our investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers with passive
investment products or who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us.       Supervision and Regulation
    As a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and
securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. Moreover, in response to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have adopted,
continue to propose or are in the process of implementing a wide range of reforms that have resulted or that may in the future result in major changes to the way we are regulated and conduct our business. These reforms include the Dodd-Frank Act;
risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted or being developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ), including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; capital
planning and stress testing requirements; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. While certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition
periods.    We continue to monitor the changing political, tax and regulatory environment; it is likely that there will be further material
changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which we operate,

although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  
   Financial Holding Company    
  Consolidated Supervision.     We have operated as a bank holding company and FHC under the BHC Act since September
2008. As a bank holding company, we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. Under existing regulation, the Federal Reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations
and take action with respect to all of our subsidiaries. In particular, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for
expansion of those businesses; new activities limitations; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act
referred to as the  Volcker Rule  and comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us and our subsidiaries with respect to
federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable.     Scope of Permitted Activities.     The BHC Act
limits the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies and grants the Federal Reserve authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. We must obtain the Federal Reserve s approval before engaging in certain
banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally. Since becoming a bank holding company, we have disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act.  
 The BHC Act grandfathers  activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties, 
provided that we were engaged in  any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States  and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. We currently engage in our
commodities activities pursuant to the BHC Act grandfather exemption as well as other authorities under the BHC Act.     Activities
Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.     The Volcker Rule prohibits  banking entities,  including the Firm and its affiliates, from engaging in certain  proprietary trading  activities, as defined in the
Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with
 covered funds,  with a number of  

Table of Contents  

exemptions and exclusions. Banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015, subject to certain
extensions. For more information about the conformance periods applicable to certain covered funds, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources Regulatory Developments.  In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule.  
 The Volcker Rule also requires that deductions be made from a bank holding company s Tier 1 capital for certain permissible investments
in covered funds. Beginning with the three months ended September 30, 2015, the required deductions are reflected in our relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios. Given its complexity, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain
and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.  
  Capital Standards.     The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding companies and
evaluates our compliance with such requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our U.S. bank subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA )
and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association ( MSPBNA ) (collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ).  
  Regulatory Capital Framework.     The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding
companies, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates our compliance with such capital requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The regulatory capital requirements are
largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee and also implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. After completion of certain transitional arrangements in the regulatory capital framework, we will be
subject to various risk-based capital requirements, measured against our Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital bases, leverage-based capital requirements, including the Supplementary Leverage Ratio, and additional capital
buffers above generally applicable minimum standards for bank holding companies.    The Basel Committee is in the process of considering
revisions to various provisions of the capital framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to our regulatory capital framework.

Regulated Subsidiaries.     In addition, many of our regulated
subsidiaries are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to regulatory capital requirements, including regulated subsidiaries registered as  swap dealers  with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) or
 security-based swap dealers  with the SEC (collectively,  Swaps Entities ) or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants. Specific regulatory capital requirements vary by regulated subsidiary, and in many cases
these standards are not yet established or are subject to ongoing rulemakings that could substantially modify requirements.  
  Commodities-Related Capital Requirements.     In September 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rulemaking
that would increase risk-based capital requirements for certain commodities-related activities and commodities-related merchant banking investments of U.S. FHCs, including the Firm; impose new limitations on the physical commodity trading activities
of certain U.S. FHCs; and enhance reporting requirements with respect to U.S. FHCs  commodities-related activities and investments. If adopted in its current form, the proposed rulemaking would result in increases in our risk-weighted assets
( RWAs ) with respect to certain commodities-related investments and physical commodity holdings. However, we expect that the proposed rule, if finalized in its proposed form, would not have a material impact on our aggregate RWAs or
risk-based capital ratios.    For more information about the specific capital requirements applicable to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries,
see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  in Part II, Item 7.  
  Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Capital Distributions.     Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve
has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including Morgan Stanley. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. For more information about
the capital planning and stress test requirements, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  in Part II, Item 7.
   In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC ) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Firm and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend
would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these

Table of Contents  

policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under circumstances
which we would not otherwise decide to do so.     Liquidity Standards.     In addition to capital regulations, the
U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio
( LCR ) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR ). The Firm and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the LCR requirements issued by the U.S. banking regulators ( U.S. LCR ) and would be subject to the NSFR
requirements proposed by the U.S. banking regulators ( U.S. NSFR ).    In addition to the U.S. LCR and U.S. NSFR, we and many of
our regulated subsidiaries, including those registered as Swaps Entities with the CFTC or SEC, are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to other liquidity standards, including liquidity stress-testing and associated liquidity reserve
requirements.    For more information, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Liquidity Framework  in Part II, Item 7.     Systemic Risk
Regime.     The Dodd-Frank Act established a systemic risk regime to which bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as Morgan Stanley, are subject. Under rules issued by the Federal
Reserve to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act s enhanced prudential standards, such bank holding companies must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash
outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. Institutions also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance
requirements.    In March 2016, the Federal Reserve  re-proposed  rules that would establish
single-counterparty credit limits for large banking organizations ( covered companies ), with more stringent limits for the largest covered companies. U.S. global systemically important banks
 ( G-SIBs ),  including the Firm, would be subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any  major counterparty  (defined as other U.S.
 G-SIBs,  foreign  G-SIBs  and nonbank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve) and to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for credit
exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the proposed rules.

In addition, the Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would create a new early remediation
framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on
short-term debt, including  off-balance  sheet exposures. For example, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital
Resources Regulatory Requirements Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt Requirement  in Part II, Item 7.  
 Under the systemic risk regime, if the Federal Reserve or the Financial Stability Oversight Council determines that a bank holding company
with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a  grave threat  to U.S. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and required to terminate
activities and dispose of assets.    See also   Capital Standards  and   Liquidity Standards  herein and
  Resolution and Recovery Planning  below.     Resolution and Recovery Planning.     Pursuant to the
Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of our material financial distress or
failure. Our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2015 resolution plan, is a single point of entry ( SPOE ) strategy. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the Parent
Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy after the Parent Company has filed for bankruptcy.  
 Further, we are required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time
to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress.    Certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are
also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, MSBNA must submit to the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes MSBNA s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in
the event of material financial distress or failure of MSBNA. In September 2016, the OCC issued final guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning by national banks and certain other institutions with total consolidated
assets of $50 billion or more, calculated on a rolling four-quarter average basis, including MSBNA. The guidelines were effective on January 1, 2017, and MSBNA must be in compliance by January 1, 2018.

Table of Contents  

In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding
companies such as the Firm and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that
certain procedures are met, including certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the U.S. President. The orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in
stages, with some regulations now finalized and others not yet proposed. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove directors and officers responsible for our
failure and to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign our assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among our
creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and
broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing an SPOE strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority.  
 Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation
authority or other resolution regimes. For more information about our resolution plan-related submissions and associated regulatory actions, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Regulatory Requirements Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Developments Resolution and Recovery Planning  in Part II, Item 7.  
  Cyber Risk Management.     As a general matter, the financial services industry faces increased regulatory focus
regarding cyber risk management practices. In October 2016, the federal banking regulators issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial
institutions and their third-party service providers, including the Firm. The proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external
dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector.

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries    
  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.     MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain
retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products, and also conducts certain foreign exchange activities.    MSPBNA
offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of our affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ( MSSB LLC ). MSPBNA also offers
certain deposit products and prime brokerage custody services.    Both MSBNA and MSPBNA are FDIC-insured national banks subject to
supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. They are both subject to the OCC s risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank s risk governance framework and the oversight of that
framework by the bank s board of directors.     Prompt Corrective Action.     The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal
banking regulator to take  prompt corrective action  ( PCA ) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current PCA regulations generally apply only to insured
banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MSPBNA and not to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. Under the systemic risk regime,
as described above, we also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. In addition, bank holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley, are required to serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank
subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.     Transactions
with Affiliates.     Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on  covered transactions  with any affiliates. Covered transactions include
any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to
all affiliates. Other provisions set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates
are  

Table of Contents  

subject to these restrictions. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions.  
 In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) us or any of our affiliates and (ii) covered
funds for which we or any of our affiliates serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by us or any of our affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in
the Volcker Rule. See also   Financial Holding Company Activities Restriction under the Volcker Rule  above.     FDIC
Regulation.     An FDIC-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control
by the same bank holding company. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of MSBNA and MSPBNA could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the other. In addition, both institutions are exposed to
changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration of the FDIC s reserve fund must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA.  
   Institutional Securities and Wealth Management    
  Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation.     Our primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan
Stanley   Co. LLC ( MS Co. ) and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory
organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities
business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers  funds and securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and
retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations
governing a broker-dealer s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of   cease-and-desist   orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the
suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer.

MSSB LLC is also a registered investment adviser with the SEC. MSSB LLC s relationship with
its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities
laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address  non-compliance,  including the power to restrict or limit MSSB LLC from carrying on
its investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of
clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines.    The Firm is subject to various regulations that affect
broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to impose a fiduciary duty rule applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to
retail customers, although the SEC has not yet acted on this authority.    As a separate matter, in April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor
adopted a conflict of interest rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that broadens the circumstances under which a firm and/or financial adviser is considered a fiduciary when providing certain recommendations to retirement
investors and requires that such recommendations be in the best interests of clients. Subject to any potential delays, the new fiduciary standard for investment advice has a scheduled applicability date of April 10, 2017, with certain aspects
subject to  phased-in  compliance, and with full compliance required by January 1, 2018. Given the breadth and scale of our platform and continued investment in technology and infrastructure, we believe
that we will be able to provide compliant solutions to meet our clients  investment needs. However, these developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential litigation or
enforcement risk.    Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve s restrictions on lending in connection with
customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory
organization rules. In many cases, our broker-dealer subsidiaries  margin policies are more stringent than these rules.    As
registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the SEC s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory
author- 

Table of Contents  

ities and self-regulatory organizations. These rules are generally designed to measure the broker-dealer subsidiary s general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a
minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also   Financial Holding Company Consolidated Supervision  and   Financial Holding Company Liquidity Standards  above. Rules of
FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations  assets.  
  Research.     Both U.S. and  non-U.S.  regulators continue to focus on
research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S. where FINRA has adopted rules that cover both equity and debt. New and revised requirements resulting from these
regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which we are a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  
  Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities.     MS Co., as a futures commission
merchant, and MSSB LLC, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their activities are regulated by, the CFTC, the National Futures Association (the  NFA ), CME Group, and various commodity
futures exchanges. MS Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and regulations of the CFTC, NFA and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other
things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants, and introducing
brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading.    Our commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving
energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the
public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. See also   Financial Holding Company Scope of Permitted Activities 
and   Capital Standards Commodities-Related Capital Requirements  above.     Derivatives
Regulation.     Under the U.S. regulatory regime for  swaps  and  security-based swaps  (collectively,  Swaps ) implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we

are subject to regulations including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of
Swaps. While the CFTC has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect, the SEC has not yet adopted a number of its Swaps regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of  swap
dealers  with the CFTC and  security-based swap dealers  with the SEC. Certain of our subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and will in the future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap
dealers. Such Swaps Entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared Swaps and
comprehensive business conduct rules. Each of the CFTC and the SEC have proposed rules to impose capital standards on Swaps Entities subject to their respective jurisdictions, which include our subsidiaries, but these rules have not yet been
finalized.    The specific parameters of some of these requirements for Swaps have been and continue to be developed through the CFTC, SEC
and bank regulator rulemakings. In 2015, the federal banking regulators and the CFTC separately issued final rules establishing uncleared Swap margin requirements for Swaps Entities subject to their respective regulation, including MSBNA, Morgan
Stanley Capital Services LLC and Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), respectively. These final rules impose variation margin requirements under a  phase-in  compliance schedule
that applied to the largest dealers as of September 1, 2016 and will apply to the remainder of  in-scope  market participants as of March 1, 2017. Similarly, the final rules  phase-in  initial margin requirements from September 1, 2016 through September 1, 2020, depending on the level of
  over-the-counter   ( OTC ) derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. Margin rules with the same or similar compliance dates have
been adopted or are in the process of being finalized by regulators outside the U.S. and certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to such rules.  
 Although the full impact of global derivatives regulation on us remains unclear, we have already faced, and are expected to continue to face,
increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. Complying with the Swaps rules also has required, and is expected to in the future require, us to change our Swaps businesses and has
required, and may in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. Compliance with Swaps-related regulatory capital requirements may require us to devote more capital to our Swaps business.

Table of Contents  

Non-U.S.  Regulation.     Our
Institutional Securities businesses also are regulated extensively by  non-U.S.  regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and
regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. In addition, certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in
banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Prudential Regulation
Authority ( PRA ), the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) and several securities and futures exchanges in the U.K., including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures Europe, regulate our activities in the U.K.; the
Bundesanstalt f r Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche B rse AG regulate our activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the
Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, regulate our activities in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and
Clearing Limited regulate our operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate our business in Singapore.  
 Our largest  non-U.S.  entity, MSIP, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the PRA,
which has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards applicable to MSIP that seek to ensure its safety and soundness and to minimize adverse effects on the stability of the U.K. financial system. MSIP is also regulated and
supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters.     Non-U.S.  policymakers and
regulators, including the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (among others, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous reforms, including those that
may further impact the structure of banks, and to formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to our European operations. In November 2016, the European Commission published proposals that would require
certain large,  non-E.U.  financial groups with two or more institutions established in the E.U., to establish a single E.U. intermediate holding company ( IHC ). The proposals would require E.U. banks
and broker-dealers to be held below the E.U. IHC; until more specific regulations are proposed, it remains unclear which other E.U. entities would need to be held beneath the E.U. IHC. The E.U. IHC would be subject to: direct supervision and
authorization by the European Central Bank or the relevant national E.U.
regu- 

lator; the E.U. bank recovery and resolution regime under the E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ( BRRD  and capital, liquidity, leverage and other prudential standards on a
consolidated basis. The proposals will now be considered by the European Parliament and the Council of the E.U. The final form of the proposals, as well as the date of their adoption, is not yet certain.  
 Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based
capital, leverage capital, liquidity, market-based reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For instance, European Market Infrastructure Regulation introduces new
requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives, as well as margin requirements for uncleared derivatives. The Markets in Financial Instrument Regulation and a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive
(together,  MiFID II ), which is now scheduled to take effect on January 3, 2018, will also introduce comprehensive and new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U., including new trading venues, enhancements to  pre-  and post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. Although the full impact of these changes remains unclear, complying with MiFID II is expected to require extensive
changes to our operations, including systems and controls.    Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized
or are in the process of proposing or finalizing recovery and resolution planning frameworks and related regulatory requirements that will apply to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For instance, the BRRD has
established a recovery and resolution framework for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. E.U. Member States were required to apply provisions implementing the BRRD as of January 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions.
In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and other E.U. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing
entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity.  
   Investment Management      Many of
the subsidiaries engaged in our asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of our asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the
investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us

Table of Contents  

from carrying on our asset management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of
individual employees, limitations on our engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate our
asset management business, we own a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by our Investment
Management business segment. In addition, certain of our affiliates are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other
guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations,
trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. See also   Institutional Securities and Wealth Management Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation,    Institutional Securities and Wealth
Management Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities,    Institutional Securities and Wealth Management Derivatives Regulation  and   Institutional Securities and Wealth  Management Non-U.S.  Regulation  above for a discussion of other regulations that impact our Investment Management business, including, among other things, the Department of Labor s conflict of
interest rule and MiFID II.    As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, our asset management activities are subject to certain
additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain
other relationships with,  covered funds,  as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. Many of these requirements may increase the expenses associated with our asset management activities and/or reduce the
investment returns we are able to generate for our asset management clients. See also   Financial Holding Company Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Developments.     Our Investment Management
business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FCA is the primary regulator of our business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates our business in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong regulates our
business in

Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates our business in Singapore. See also   Institutional Securities and Wealth
 Management Non-U.S.  Regulation  herein.      Financial Crimes Program    
 Our Financial Crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our financial crime prevention efforts across all regions
and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of our Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ), economic sanctions ( Sanctions ) and anti-corruption programs.  
 In the U.S., the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to
detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML
programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require
designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Regarding Sanctions, we have implemented
policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ), which target foreign countries,
entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and to comply, as applicable, similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral
organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council.    We are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws,
such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly
or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that
are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.  

Table of Contents  

Protection of Client Information    
 Many aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including
those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law,
the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. We have adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  
   Compensation Practices and Other Regulation    
 Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by
other financial regulatory bodies worldwide. In particular, we are subject to the Federal Reserve s guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk taking that
threatens the organizations  safety and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and we expect
that these policies will evolve over a number of years.    We are subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
which may impact our compensation practices. In 2016, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, certain federal regulatory agencies reproposed a rule, which, if implemented as written, would require, among other things, the deferral of a percentage of certain
incentive-based compensation for senior executives and certain other employees and, under certain circumstances,  clawback  of incentive-based compensation. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in 2015, the SEC proposed rules that
would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies
to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. We continue to evaluate the proposed rules, both of which are subject to further rulemaking procedures.  
 Our compensation practices may also be impacted by regulations in other jurisdictions. Our compensation practices with respect to certain
employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of our E.U. operations are subject to the Capital Requirements Directive IV (the  CRD IV ) and related E.U. and Member State regulations, including, among others, a cap
on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed

remuneration and clawback arrangements in relation to variable remuneration paid in the past. In the U.K., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the
Remuneration Code of the FCA and by the PRA Rulebook (Remuneration Part), including provisions that implement the CRD IV, as well as additional U.K. requirements.  
 For a discussion of certain risks relating to our regulatory environment, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.  
    Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley   
 The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 27, 2017 are set forth below. Business experience for the
past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.     Jeffrey S. Brodsky (52) .    Executive Vice President
and Chief Human Resources Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources (January 2011 to December 2015).  Co-Head  of Human Resources (January 2010 to December
2011). Head of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Human Resources (June 2009 to January 2010).     James P. Gorman
(58) .    Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 through December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors
(since January 2010).  Co-President  (December 2007 to December 2009) and  Co-Head  of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating
Officer of Wealth Management (February 2006 to April 2008).     Eric F. Grossman (50) .    Executive Vice President
and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010).
General Counsel of Wealth Management (November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk   Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).  
  Keishi Hotsuki (54) .    Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley
(since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk
Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007).  

Table of Contents  

Colm Kelleher (59) .    President of Morgan Stanley (since January
2016). Executive Vice President (October 2007 to January 2016). President of Institutional Securities (January 2013 to January 2016). Head of International (January 2011 to January 2016).  Co-President  of
Institutional Securities (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and  Co-Head  of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October
2007).  Co-Head  of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).     Jonathan M. Pruzan
(48) .    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2015).  Co-Head  of Global Financial Institutions Group (January 2010 to April 2015).  Co-Head  of North American Financial Institutions Group M A (September 2007 to December 2009). Head of the U.S. Bank Group (April 2005 to August 2007).

Daniel A. Simkowitz (51) .    Head of Investment Management of Morgan
Stanley (since October 2015).  Co-Head  of Global Capital Markets (March 2013 to September 2015). Chairman of Global Capital Markets (November 2009 to March 2013). Managing Director in Global Capital Markets
(December 2000 to November 2009).  

Table of Contents  

Item 1A. Risk Factors   
 For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results and strategic objectives, see  Forward-Looking
Statements  immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and  Return on Equity Target  and  Effects of Inflation and Changes in Interest and Foreign Exchange Rates  under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7.     Market Risk   
 Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price
volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. For more information on how we monitor and manage
market risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.  
   Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors,
including changes in asset values.      Our results of operations have been in the past and may, in the future, be materially affected
by market fluctuations due to global financial markets, economic conditions, changes to the global trade policies and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest
rates, currency values and other market indices. The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to
substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial
products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal
investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of
our Wealth Management business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among

money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Investment Management business segment.  
 The value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and
disruptions in the credit markets make it extremely difficult to value certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result
in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees or carried interest) in respect of certain business. In addition, at the time of any
sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a
decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.    In
addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as
effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and
on a large scale. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if
extreme market events were to occur.      Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.    
 Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending
businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements, or when market conditions are more favorable for our competitors. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the
securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. For further information regarding our country risk exposure, see also  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Country Risk Exposure  in Item 7A.  

Table of Contents  

Credit Risk   
 Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. For more
information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.  
   We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.    
 We incur significant credit risk exposure through our Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of
business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; providing short
or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies,
exchanges, banks,     securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying
obligations or loans.    We also incur credit risk in our Wealth Management business segment lending to mainly individual investors,
including, but not limited to, margin and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit.  
 While we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, adverse economic conditions may negatively
impact our clients and our current credit exposures. In addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we
regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.  
   A default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets.    
 The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other
relationships among the institutions. For example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our concentration of risk
with respect to these entities. As a

result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This
is sometimes referred to as  systemic risk  and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks and securities firms, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could
adversely affect us. See also  Systemic Risk Regime  under  Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company  in Part I, Item 1.  
  Operational Risk     Operational risk
refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical
assets). We may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade
processing). Legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk.  For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.  
   We are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operational or security systems, that could
adversely affect our businesses or reputation.      Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a
daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In some of our businesses, the transactions we process are complex. In addition, we may introduce new products or services or change processes or
reporting, including in connection with new regulatory requirements, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated
trading platforms has resulted in using increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. We perform the functions required to operate our different
businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions.
Additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing privacy and data protection, which may differ, and potentially conflict, in various jurisdictions.

Table of Contents  

As a major participant in the global capital markets, we maintain extensive controls to reduce
the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud. Nevertheless, such risk cannot be completely eliminated.  
 We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial
intermediaries we use to facilitate our lending. securities and derivatives transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party s systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees,
we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. In addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges
and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct
business.    Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all
potential business continuity risks to us. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the New York
metropolitan area, London, Hong Kong and Tokyo as well as Mumbai, Budapest, Glasgow and Baltimore. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, cyber incidents, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, natural
disasters, extreme weather events, electrical outage, environmental hazard, computer servers, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.  
 Although we devote significant resources to maintaining and upgrading our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion prevention and
detection systems, monitoring firewalls and network traffic to safeguard critical business applications, and supervising third party providers that have access to our systems, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can
provide absolute security given the techniques used in cyber attacks are complex and frequently change, and may not be able to be anticipated. Like other financial services firms, the Firm and its third party providers continue to be the subject of
attempted unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage

systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including
third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. Any of these
parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, third parties or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. There can be no
assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale.  
 If one or more of these events occur, it could result in a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients ,
partners  or counterparties  personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third party providers  computer systems. Furthermore, such events could cause
interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , partners , counterparties  or third parties  operations, which could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to
us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition
or results of operations.    Given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients,
partners and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. We expect that any investigation of a cyber attack
would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how
best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack.  
 While many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover
sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses. In addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may
be insufficient to cover all losses.  

Table of Contents  

Liquidity and Funding Risk   
 Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets
or difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity and funding risk encompasses the risk that our financial condition or overall soundness is adversely affected by an inability or perceived inability to meet our financial obligations in a timely
manner. It also includes the associated funding risks triggered by the market or idiosyncratic stress events that may cause unexpected changes in funding needs or an inability to raise new funding. For more information on how we monitor and manage
liquidity and funding risk, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk Risk Management Liquidity and Funding Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.      Liquidity is essential to
our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.      Liquidity is essential to our
businesses. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption
of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the U.S. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding.  
 In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or
short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or our
industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment portfolios or
trading assets, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial
condition.      Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend on our credit ratings.    
 The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. The

rating agencies continue to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings, including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital
adequacy, liquidity and funding, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. Additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, including, for
example, regulatory changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of third party support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions.  
 Our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term
counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC and other derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our
Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. Termination of our
trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. The additional collateral or termination payments
which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s Investors Services, Inc. and S P Global Ratings. See also  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Ratings Incremental Collateral or Terminating Payments upon Potential Future Rating Downgrade  in Part II, Item 7.  
   We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.    
 The Parent Company has no operations and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend
payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In
particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that limit, as well as authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce, the flow of funds to the
Parent Company, or that prohibit such transfers or dividends altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to  ring fence  entities by regulators outside of the U.S. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of

Table of Contents  

financial difficulties involving such entities. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a
bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock.       The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the
FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Firm and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.  
   Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by U.S. and international
markets and economic conditions.      Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity
markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economies. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly
disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future. In particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
Significant turbulence in the U.S., the E.U. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.  
  Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk   
 Legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties,
judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities.
This risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. It also includes compliance with AML, anti-corruption and terrorist financing rules and regulations.
For more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Legal and Compliance Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.  
   The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, and changes in regulation will impact our business.    
 Like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities
exchanges and by regulators and

exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses
and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments.    The regulation of major financial firms, including
the Firm, as well as of the markets in which we operate, is extensive and subject to ongoing change. We are, or will become, subject to (among other things) wide-ranging regulation and supervision, intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans
for expansion of those businesses, limitations on new activities, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, new
requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of external total loss-absorbing capacity and external long-term debt, restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the Volcker Rule, comprehensive derivatives regulation, tax regulations,
antitrust laws, trade and transaction reporting obligations, and broadened fiduciary obligations. In some areas, regulatory standards have not yet been finalized, are subject to final rulemaking or transition periods or may otherwise be revised in
whole or in part. Ongoing implementation of, or changes in, laws and regulations could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or
force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. In addition, regulatory
requirements that are being imposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the U.S. and may adversely affect us. We expect legal and regulatory requirements to be subject to
ongoing change for the foreseeable future, which may result in significant new costs to comply with new or revised requirements as well as to monitor for compliance on an ongoing basis.  
   The application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the United States or other jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly
resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for our security holders, and subject us to other restrictions.    
 Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes our
strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to jointly determine that our annual resolution plan submission was not
credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any
defi- 

Table of Contents  

ciencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities, or
operations, or after a two year period, we may be required to divest assets or operations.    In addition, provided that certain procedures
are met, we can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver. The FDIC s power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard
the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of our unsecured debt. See  Business Supervision and
Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  in Part II, Item 7.  
 Further, because both our resolution plan contemplates a an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the FDIC has proposed an SPOE
strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an SPOE strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were
commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary
to implement the resolution strategy, and the Parent Company expects to enter   into an amended and restated secured support agreement with its material subsidiaries pursuant to which it would
provide such capital and liquidity.    Under the amended and restated support agreement, upon the occurrence of a resolution scenario,
including one in which an SPOE strategy is used, the Parent Company will be obligated to contribute or loan on a subordinated basis all of its material assets, other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company and certain intercompany
payables, to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to its material subsidiaries. The obligations of the Parent Company under the amended and restated support agreement will be secured on a senior basis by the assets of the Parent Company
(other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company). As a result, claims of our material subsidiaries against the assets of the Parent Company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company) will be effectively senior to unsecured
obligations of the Parent Company. Such unsecured obligations would be at risk of absorbing losses of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Although an SPOE strategy, whether applied pursuant to our resolution plan or in a resolution

proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an SPOE strategy, including the
provision of support to the Parent Company s material subsidiaries pursuant to the amended and restated secured support agreement, will not result in greater losses for holders of our securities compared to a different resolution strategy for
the firm.    Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly
liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. For example, the Federal Reserve has issued a final rule that requires  top-tier  bank holding companies of U.S.  G-SIBs, 
including Morgan Stanley, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt ( total loss-absorbing capacity  or  TLAC ) in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point
of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible TLAC where the SPOE strategy is used. The combined implication of the SPOE resolution strategy and the TLAC final rule is that our
losses will be imposed on the holders of eligible long-term debt and other forms of eligible TLAC issued by the Parent Company before any losses are imposed on the holders of the debt securities of our operating subsidiaries or before putting U.S.
taxpayers at risk.    In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and other E.U. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the
process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured
liabilities into equity. Such   bail-in   powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors.  Non-U.S.  regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity that would pass losses up from the
subsidiaries to the Parent Company and, ultimately, to security holders of the Parent Company in the event of failure.      We may be
prevented from paying dividends or taking other capital actions because of regulatory constraints or revised regulatory capital standards.    
 We are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, which requires us to submit, on
an annual basis, a capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders,  

Table of Contents  

proposed repurchases of our outstanding securities, and other proposed capital actions that we intend to take. The Federal Reserve may object to, or otherwise require us to modify, such plan, or
may object or require modifications to a resubmitted capital plan, any of which would adversely affect shareholders. In addition, beyond review of the plan, the Federal Reserve may impose other restrictions or conditions on us that prevent us from
paying or increasing dividends, repurchasing securities or taking other capital actions that would benefit shareholders. Finally, the Federal Reserve may change regulatory capital standards to impose higher requirements that restrict our ability to
take capital actions, or may modify or impose other regulatory standards that increase our operating expenses and reduce our ability to take capital actions.  
   The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory and law enforcement investigations,
and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.      As a global financial services firm, we face the risk of
investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. Investigations and proceedings initiated by these authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines,
penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and
proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the Firm, and certain U.S. and international governmental entities
have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions, pleas or deferred prosecution agreements from, financial institutions. Significant regulatory or law enforcement action against us could materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the SEC or CFTC with
information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. As a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the SEC or CFTC.  
 We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation,
as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory

actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. In
some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. In other cases, including antitrust litigation, we may be subject to claims for joint and several liability with other
defendants for treble damages or other relief related to alleged conspiracies involving other institutions. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including
 non-compliance  with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or improper sales practices or conduct.  
   We may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur
losses in excess of our reserves.      We originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Further, we securitize and
trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. In connection
with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if
such representations and warranties were breached. We have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities. For
additional information, see also Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.    We currently have several
legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. If there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. In addition, our reserves are
based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. If those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially.  
   Our commodities activities and investments subject us to extensive regulation, and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us
to significant costs and liabilities.      In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business
segment, we engage in the storage, transportation, marketing and execution of transactions in several commodities, including metals, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, and other commodity products. In

Table of Contents  

addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and own a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC  , which owns a group of
companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and
regulations. Further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change.  
 Although we have attempted to mitigate our environmental risks by, among other measures, selling or ceasing most of our prior petroleum
storage and transportation activities, adopting appropriate policies and procedures, and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks
may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely
affected by these events.    During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local
authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. In addition, new regulation of
OTC derivatives markets in the U.S. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. We may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in
complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial
civil and criminal fines and penalties. See also  Financial Holding Company Capital Standards Commodities-Related Capital Requirements  under  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1.  
   A failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.    
 As a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations,
governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients,
between an employee on the one hand

and us or a client on the other, or situations in which we may be a creditor of a client. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address potential conflicts
of interest. However, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our
reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into
transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.    Our regulators have the ability to
scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. For example, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the Federal Reserve subjects us to direct Federal
Reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates. Further, the Volcker Rule subjects us to regulatory scrutiny regarding certain transactions between us and our clients.  
  Risk Management       Our risk
management strategies, models and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk.    
 We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management capabilities and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless,
our risk management strategies, models and processes, including our use of various risk models for assessing market exposures and hedging strategies, stress testing and other analysis, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in
all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. As our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies, models and processes may not
always adapt with those changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management s judgment. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be
significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, many models we use are based on assumptions or inputs regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators and therefore cannot anticipate
sudden, unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements, which could cause us to incur losses.  

Table of Contents  

Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks
requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our trading risk management strategies and techniques also
seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany
their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. For example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions
on sales or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. For more information on how we
monitor and manage market and certain other risks and related strategies, models and processes, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.  
  Competitive Environment       We face
strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.    
 The financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with
commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in
the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time,
certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms, or have declared bankruptcy. Such
changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. We have experienced and may
continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. In addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and, in some cases, less
stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. For more
informa- 

tion regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see  Business Competition  and  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1.  
   Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.    
 We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities,
derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, and other automated trading platforms has increased the pressure on  bid-offer  spreads, commissions,
markups or comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. We have experienced and it is likely that we
will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing  bid-offer  spreads, commissions, markups or
comparable fees.      Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure
to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.      Our people are our most important resource and competition for
qualified employees is intense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain
employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation,
including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees.  
  International Risk       We are subject
to numerous political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.    
 We are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries,
including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies, and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and
governmental instability. In many countries, the  

Table of Contents  

laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in
every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced
risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.    Various emerging market countries have experienced
severe political, economic or financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth
rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets
generally.    The emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an
emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel
limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.    As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with
the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. A violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties.
     The U.K. s anticipated withdrawal from the E.U. could adversely affect us.   
 On June 23, 2016, the U.K. electorate voted to leave the E.U. It is difficult to predict the future of the U.K. s relationship with the
E.U., which uncertainty may increase the volatility in the global financial markets in the short- and medium-term. The U.K. Prime Minister has confirmed the U.K. will invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty by no later than the end of March 2017,
subject to the passing of necessary legislation by the U.K. Parliament. This will trigger a two-year period, subject to extension, during which the U.K. government is expected to negotiate its withdrawal agreement with the E.U. Absent any changes to
this time schedule, the U.K.

is expected to leave the E.U. in early 2019. The terms and conditions of the anticipated withdrawal from the E.U., and which of the several alternative models of relationship that the U.K. might
seek to negotiate with the E.U., remain uncertain. However, the U.K. government has stated that the U.K. will leave the E.U. single market and will seek a phased period of implementation for the new relationship that may cover the legal and
regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions with significant operations in Europe, such as the Firm. Potential effects of the U.K. exit from the E.U. and potential mitigation actions may vary considerably depending on the timing of
withdrawal and the nature of any transition or successor arrangements. Any future limitations on providing financial services into the E.U. from our U.K. operations could require us to make potentially significant changes to our operations in the
U.K. and Europe and our legal structure there, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.     Acquisition, Divestiture and
Joint Venture Risk       We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures,
minority stakes or strategic alliances.      In connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority
stakes or strategic alliances (including with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or
separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks
and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.  
 In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by
the relevant joint venture.    There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions or divestitures will be successfully integrated or
disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and
cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.    Certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses,
may bring us into contact, directly or  

Table of Contents  

indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business activities expose
us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.  
 For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also  Business Supervision and Regulation 
in Part I, Item 1.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
 We, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or
current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that we believe are material.

Item 2.
Properties     We have offices, operations and data centers located around the world. Our properties that are not owned are leased on
terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. We believe the facilities we own or occupy are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well
maintained. Our principal offices include the following properties:      

1. 
   The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space leased by our branch offices.

Table of Contents  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
    
  In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business, the Firm has been
named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or
threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are
in financial distress.    The Firm is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and
informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Firm s business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the Firm, and accounting
and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  
 The Firm contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. Where available information indicates that it
is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Firm can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Firm accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. The Firm s future legal
expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Firm.  
 In many proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible, or to
estimate the amount of any loss. The Firm cannot predict with certainty if, how or when such proceedings or investigations will be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, particularly for proceedings
and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved,
including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal
questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation. Subject to the foregoing, the Firm believes,
based on current

knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such proceedings and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Firm,
although the outcome of such proceedings or investigations could be material to the Firm s operating results and cash flows for a particular period depending on, among other things, the level of the Firm s revenues or income for such
period.    Over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by government and
self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Firm expects that it will continue to be the subject of elevated claims for damages and other relief and, while the Firm has identified below
certain proceedings that the Firm believes to be material, individually or collectively, there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be
material.     Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters   
 On July 15, 2010, China Development Industrial Bank ( CDIB ) filed a complaint against the Firm, styled  China Development
Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley       Co. Incorporated et al ., which is pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County ( Supreme Court of NY ). The complaint relates to a $275 million
credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the STACK  2006-1  CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common law fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the Firm
misrepresented the risks of the STACK  2006-1  CDO to CDIB, and that the Firm knew that the assets backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The complaint seeks
compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost under the credit default swap, rescission of CDIB s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief,
fees and costs. On February 28, 2011, the court denied the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint.    On August 7, 2012, U.S.
Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2006-4SL  and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series  2006-4SL 
against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2006-4SL,  et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital   Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of
contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and
warran- 

Table of Contents  

ties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On
August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. On December 2, 2016, the Firm moved for summary judgment and the plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment.  
 On August 8, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL,
Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-14SL, Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-4SL  and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series  2007-4SL  against the
Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc ., pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts
claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million respectively, breached various representations and
warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 16, 2013, the court granted in part and
denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. On August 16, 2016, the Firm moved for summary judgment and the plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment.  
 On September 28, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust
2006-13ARX against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.,  pending in the Supreme Court of NY. Plaintiff
filed an amended complaint on January 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million, breached
various representations and warranties. The amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. By order entered September 30, 2014, the court granted in part and
denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which the plaintiff appealed. On August 11, 2016, the Appellate Division, First Department reversed in part the trial court s order that granted the Firm s motion
to dismiss. On December 13, 2016, the Appellate Division granted the Firm s motion for leave to appeal to the New York Court of Appeals. The Firm filed its opening letter brief with the Court of Appeals on February 6, 2017.

On December 14, 2012, Royal Park Investments SA/NV filed a complaint against the Firm,
certain affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Merrill Lynch et al.  On October 24, 2013, plaintiff filed a new complaint against the Firm in the Supreme Court of NY, styled
 Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Morgan Stanley et al. , alleging that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing
residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Firm to plaintiff was approximately $597 million. The complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement,
negligent misrepresentation, and aiding and abetting fraud and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on December 1, 2015. On April 29, 2016, the Firm filed a motion to
dismiss the amended complaint.    On January 10, 2013, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan
Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-10SL against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley   Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in
interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of
approximately $300 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the Firm to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified
damages, and interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint.  
 On May 3, 2013, plaintiffs in  Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank AG et al. v. Morgan Stanley et al.  filed a complaint against
the Firm, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by
securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Firm to plaintiff was approximately $644 million. The complaint alleges causes of action against
the Firm for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On June 10, 2014, the court granted in part and
denied in part the defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint. The Firm perfected its appeal from that decision on June 12, 2015.

Table of Contents  

On May 17, 2013, plaintiff in  IKB International S.A. in Liquidation, et al. v. Morgan
Stanley, et al.  filed a complaint against the Firm and certain affiliates in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through
certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored, underwritten and/or sold by the Firm to plaintiff was approximately $132 million. The complaint alleges
causes of action against the Firm for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On October 29, 2014, the court granted
in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss. All claims regarding four certificates were dismissed. After these dismissals, the remaining amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Firm or sold to plaintiff by the Firm was
approximately $116 million. On August 11, 2016, the Appellate Division, First Department affirmed the trial court s order denying in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. 
 On July 2, 2013, Deutsche Bank, in its capacity as trustee, became the named plaintiff in  Federal Housing Finance Agency, as
Conservator for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, on behalf of the Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series  2007-NC1  (MSAC  2007-NC1)  v.
Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , and filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of NY under the caption  Deutsche Bank National Trust   Company, as Trustee for the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series  2007-NC1  v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I, Inc.  On February 3, 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.25 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The amended complaint seeks, among other relief,
specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission and interest. On April 12, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the amended
complaint, dismissing all claims except a single claim, regarding which the motion was denied without prejudice. On January 17, 2017, the First Department affirmed the lower court s April 12, 2016 order.  
 On July 8, 2013, U.S. Bank National Association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the Firm styled  U.S. Bank
National Association, solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-2AX  (MSM  2007-2AX)  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings
LLC,   Successor-By-Merger   to Morgan 

Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. and GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other
things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy
procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. On November 24, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint.  
 On August 26, 2013, a complaint was filed against the Firm and certain affiliates in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Phoenix Light SF
Limited et al v. Morgan Stanley et al ., which was amended on April 23, 2015. The amended complaint alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiffs, or their assignors, of certain mortgage
pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly issued by the Firm and/or sold to plaintiffs or their assignors by the Firm was approximately
$344 million. The amended complaint raises common law claims of fraud, fraudulent inducement, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation and rescission based on mutual mistake and seeks, among other things, compensatory damages,
punitive damages or alternatively rescission or rescissionary damages associated with the purchase of such certificates. On April 23, 2015, the court granted the Firm s motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on May 21,
2015, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that order.    On November 6, 2013, Deutsche Bank, in its capacity as trustee, became
the named plaintiff in  Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, on behalf of the Trustee of the Morgan Stanley   ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series
 2007-NC3  (MSAC  2007-NC3)  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC , and filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of NY under the caption  Deutsche Bank
National Trust Company, solely in its capacity as Trustee for Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust, Series  2007-NC3  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as   Successor-by-Merger   to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.  The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and alleges, among other
things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.3 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy
procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, rescission, interest and costs. On April 12, 2016, the court granted the Firm s motion

Table of Contents  

to dismiss the complaint, and granted the plaintiff the ability to seek to replead certain aspects of the complaint. On May 25, 2016, Deutsche Bank filed a notice of appeal of that order. On
January 17, 2017, the First Department affirmed the lower court s order granting the motion to dismiss the complaint.    On
December 30, 2013, Wilmington Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-12,  filed a complaint against the Firm styled  Wilmington Trust Company v. Morgan
Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC et al. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of
approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, interest and costs. On June 14, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s
motion to dismiss the complaint. On August 17, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that order.    On April 28, 2014,
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley Structured Trust I  2007-1,  filed a complaint against the Firm styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company v. Morgan
Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC , pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ( SDNY ). The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in
the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the
transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. On April 3, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint.  
 On September 19, 2014, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company ( FGIC ) filed a complaint against the Firm in the Supreme Court of
NY, styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al.  relating to a securitization issued by Basket of Aggregated Residential NIMS  2007-1  Ltd. The complaint asserts
claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin securities ( NIMS ) in the trust breached various representations and warranties. FGIC issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain
notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the NIMS breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain
payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys  fees and interest. On

November 24, 2014, the Firm filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the court denied on January 19, 2017.  
 On September 23, 2014, FGIC filed a complaint against the Firm in the Supreme Court of NY styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company
v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al . relating to the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust  2007-NC4.  The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and alleges,
among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to induce FGIC to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of certificates that
had an original balance of approximately $876 million. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive damages,
attorneys  fees and interest. On January 23, 2017, the court denied the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint.    On
January 23, 2015, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the Firm styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.
Trust  2007-NC4  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as   Successor-by-Merger   to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.,
and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately
$1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable
and punitive damages, attorneys  fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. On December 11, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. On February 11, 2016, plaintiff
filed a notice of appeal of that order.    On April 1, 2016, the California Attorney General s Office filed an action against the
Firm in California state court styled  California v. Morgan Stanley, et al. , on behalf of California investors, including the California Public Employees  Retirement System and the California Teachers  Retirement System. The
complaint alleges that the Firm made misrepresentations and omissions regarding residential mortgage-backed securities and notes issued by the Cheyne SIV, and asserts violations of the California False Claims Act and other state laws and seeks
treble damages, civil penalties, disgorgement, and injunctive relief. On September 30, 2016, the court granted the Firm s demurrer, with leave to replead. On October 21, 2016, the California Attorney General filed

Table of Contents  

an amended complaint. On January 25, 2017, the court denied the Firm s demurrer with respect to the amended complaint.  
  Currency Related Matters     The Firm is
responding to a number of regulatory and governmental inquiries both in the United States and abroad related to its foreign exchange business. In addition, on June 29, 2015, the Firm and a number of other financial institutions were named as
respondents in a proceeding before Brazil s Council for Economic Defense related to alleged anticompetitive activity in the foreign exchange market for the Brazilian Real.  
 The Firm, as well as other foreign exchange dealers, are defendants in  In Re Foreign Exchange Benchmark Rates Antitrust Litigation ,
pending in the SDNY. On July 16, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint generally alleging that defendants engaged in a conspiracy to fix, maintain or make artificial prices for key benchmark rates, to manipulate bid/ask spreads, and, by
their behavior in the   over-the-counter   market, to thereby cause corresponding manipulation in the foreign exchange futures market. Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief as
well as treble damages in an unspecified amount. On December 16, 2016, the Firm and plaintiffs reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation with respect to the Firm. After it is finalized by the parties, the settlement will be
subject to court approval.     European Matters   
 On June 26, 2006, the public prosecutor in Parma, Italy brought criminal charges against certain present and former employees of the Firm
related to the bankruptcy of Parmalat in 2003. The trial commenced in September 2009 and the evidence phase concluded in January 2017. A verdict is expected during the course of 2017. While the Firm is not a defendant in the criminal proceeding,
certain investors have asserted civil claims against the Firm related to the proceedings. These claims seek, among other relief, moral damages and loss of opportunity damages related to their purchase of approximately  327 million in bonds
issued by Parmalat. In addition, on October 11, 2011, an Italian financial institution, Banco Popolare Societ  Cooperativa ( Banco Popolare ), filed a civil claim against the Firm in the Milan courts, styled  Banco Popolare
Societ  Cooperativa v Morgan Stanley       Co. International plc       others  (File number 63671/2011), related to its purchase of  100 million of bonds issued by Parmalat. The claim
asserted by Banco Popolare alleges, among other things, that the Firm was aware of Parmalat s impending insolvency and conspired with others to deceive Banco Popolare into buying bonds by concealing both Parmalat s true financial condition
and certain features

of the bonds from the market and Banco Popolare. Banco Popolare seeks damages of  76 million (approximately $80 million) plus damages for loss of opportunity and moral damages. The Firm
filed its answer on April 20, 2012, and the hearing on the parties  final submissions is scheduled for March 20, 2018.   On
May 12, 2016, the Austrian state of Land Salzburg filed a claim against the Firm in the Regional Court in Frankfurt, Germany, styled  Land Salzburg v. Morgan Stanley       Co. International plc  (the  German
Proceedings ) seeking  209 million (approximately $220 million) plus interest, attorneys  fees and other relief relating to certain fixed income and commodities derivative transactions which Land Salzburg entered into with the
Firm between 2005 and 2012. Land Salzburg has alleged that it had neither the capacity nor authority to enter into such transactions, which should be set aside, and that the Firm breached certain advisory and other duties which the Firm had owed to
it. On April 28, 2016, the Firm filed an action against Land Salzburg in the High Court in London, England styled  Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC and Morgan Stanley       Co. International plc v. Land Salzburg  (the
 English Proceedings ) in which the Firm is seeking declarations that Land Salzburg had both the capacity and authority to enter into the transactions, and that the Firm has no liability to Land Salzburg arising from them. On July 25,
2016, the Firm filed an application with the Regional Court in Frankfurt to stay the German Proceedings on the basis that the High Court in London was first seized of the dispute between the parties and, pending determination of that application,
filed its statement of defense on December 23, 2016. On December 8, 2016, Land Salzburg filed an application with the High Court in London challenging its jurisdiction to determine the English Proceedings.  
 On July 11, 2016, the Firm received an invitation to respond to a proposed claim ( Proposed Claim ) by the public prosecutor
for Court of Accounts for the Republic of Italy. The Proposed Claim relates to certain derivative transactions between the Republic of Italy and the Firm. The transactions were originally entered into between 1999 and 2005, and were terminated in
December 2011 and January 2012. The Proposed Claim alleges, inter alia, that the Firm was acting as an agent of the Republic of Italy, that some or all of the derivative transactions were improper and that the termination of the transactions was
also improper. The Proposed Claim indicates that, if a proceeding is initiated against the Firm, the public prosecutor would be asserting administrative claims against the Firm for  2.879 billion (approximately $3 billion). The Firm
does not agree with the Proposed Claim and presented its defenses to the public prosecutor.  

Table of Contents  

Other Litigation   
 On October 20, 2014, a purported class action complaint was filed against the Firm and other defendants styled  Genesee   County
Employees  Retirement System v. Bank of America Corporation et al.  in the SDNY. The action was later consolidated with four similar actions in SDNY under the lead case styled  Alaska Electrical Pension Fund v. Bank of America Corporation
et al.  A consolidated amended complaint was filed on February 2, 2015 asserting claims for alleged violations of the Sherman Act, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust enrichment, and
tortious interference with contract. The consolidated amended complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants engaged in antitrust violations with regards to the process of setting ISDAfix, a financial benchmark and seeks treble damages,
injunctive relief, attorneys  fees and other relief. On March 28, 2016, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants  motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On February 7, 2017, the plaintiffs filed a
second consolidated amended complaint.     The following matters were terminated during or following the quarter ended December 31,
2016:     On December 23, 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle filed a complaint against the Firm and another defendant in
the Superior Court of the State of Washington, styled  Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. Morgan Stanley       Co. Inc., et al.  The amended complaint, filed on September 28, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue
statements and material omissions in the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Firm
was approximately $233 million. The complaint raises claims under the Washington State Securities Act and seeks, among other

things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. On January 23, 2017, the parties reached an agreement to settle the litigation.  
 On March 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco filed a complaint against the Firm and other defendants in the Superior
Court of the State of California styled  Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. et al.  An amended complaint, filed on June 10, 2010, alleges that defendants made untrue statements and material omissions
in connection with the sale to plaintiff of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The amount of certificates allegedly sold to plaintiff by the Firm was approximately
$276 million. The complaint raises claims under both the federal securities laws and California law and seeks, among other things, to rescind the plaintiff s purchase of such certificates. On December 21, 2016, the parties reached an
agreement to settle the litigation.    On January 25, 2011, the Firm was named as a defendant in  The Bank of New York Mellon Trust,
National Association v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital, Inc.,  a litigation pending in the SDNY. The suit, brought by the trustee of a series of commercial mortgage pass-through certificates, alleges that the Firm breached certain
representations and warranties with respect to an $81 million commercial mortgage loan that was originated and transferred to the trust by the Firm in 2007. The complaint seeks, among other things, to have the Firm repurchase the loan and pay
additional monetary damages, and interest. On February 17, 2017, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation.      
 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures     Not applicable.

Table of Contents  

Part II   
    Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    Morgan Stanley s common stock trades under the symbol  MS  on the New York Stock Exchange. As of February 17,
2017, we had 64,798 holders of record; however, we believe the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.    The table
below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and high sales prices per share of our common stock and the amount of dividends declared per common share by our Board of Directors for such quarter.  
   
   The following table sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by us or on our behalf of our
common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2016.     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

1. 
   Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, Rule  10b5-1  plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices we deem appropriate and may be suspended at any time.     

2. 
   Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of our outstanding stock under a share repurchase program (the
 Share Repurchase Program ). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements.
The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date. Share repurchases are subject to regulatory approval. In June 2016, we received a conditional  non-objection  from the Federal Reserve to
our 2016 capital plan, which included a share repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of our outstanding common stock during the period beginning July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017. During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we
repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of our outstanding common stock as part of our Share Repurchase Program. For further information, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Management  in Part II, Item 7.

3. 
   Includes shares acquired by us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations on stock-based awards and the
exercise of stock options granted under our stock-based compensation plans.     

Table of Contents  

Stock Performance Graph   
 The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of our common stock, the
Standard   Poor s 500 ( S P 500 ) Stock Index and the S P 500 Financials Index for the last five years. The graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on December 31, 2011 and reinvestment of dividends
on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. This graph does not forecast future performance of our common stock.     Cumulative
Total Return      December 31, 2011 December 31, 2016       

Table of Contents  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
    
   Morgan Stanley Selected Financial Data       

N/M Not Meaningful  

1. 
   Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings (loss) per basic and diluted common share.     

2. 
   For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.     

3. 
   Book value per common share equals common shareholders  equity divided by common shares outstanding.

4. 
   Amounts include loans held for investment and loans held for sale but exclude loans at fair value, which are included
in Trading assets in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8).     

5. 
   The calculation of return on average common equity equals net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred
dividends as a percentage of average common equity. The return on average common equity is a  non-generally  accepted accounting principle financial measure that the Firm considers to be a useful measure to the
Firm, investors and analysts to assess operating performance.     

Table of Contents  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations        Introduction   
    
  Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains
significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Morgan Stanley, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a
large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley,   Firm,   us, 
 we,  or  our  mean Morgan Stanley (the  Parent Company ) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.    A
description of the clients and principal products and services of each of our business segments is as follows:  
  Institutional Securities  provides investment banking, sales and trading, lending and other services to corporations,
governments, financial institutions, and high to ultra-high net worth clients. Investment banking services consist of capital raising and financial advisory services, including services relating to the underwriting of debt, equity and other
securities, as well as advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance. Sales and trading services include sales, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income products, including foreign
exchange and commodities, as well as prime brokerage services. Lending services include originating and/or purchasing corporate loans, commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, financing extended to equities and commodities
customers, and loans to municipalities. Other activities include investments and research.     Wealth Management 
provides a comprehensive array of financial services and solutions to individual investors and small to  medium-sized  businesses and institutions covering brokerage and investment advisory services, financial
and

wealth planning services, annuity and insurance products, credit and other lending products, banking and retirement plan services.  
  Investment Management  provides a broad range of investment strategies and products that span geographies, asset
classes, and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across institutional and intermediary channels. Strategies and products include equity, fixed income, liquidity and alternative/other products. Institutional clients include
defined benefit/defined contribution plans, foundations, endowments, government entities, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, third-party fund sponsors and corporations. Individual clients are serviced through intermediaries, including
affiliated and  non-affiliated  distributors.    The results of operations in the past have been, and
in the future may continue to be, materially affected by competition; risk factors; and legislative, legal and regulatory developments; as well as other factors. These factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic
objectives. Additionally, the discussion of our results of operations herein may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect management s beliefs and expectations, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause
actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see  Forward-Looking Statements  immediately preceding Part I, Item 1,  Business Competition  and
 Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A and  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  herein.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Executive Summary   
  Overview of Financial Results      Selected Financial Information
and Other Statistical Data       

EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa  

1. 
   For a discussion of how the geographic breakdown for net revenues is determined, see Note 21 to the consolidated
financial statements in Item 8.     

2. 
   For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8.     

3. 
   For a discussion of our regulatory capital ratios, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory
Requirements  herein.     

4. 
   See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on the Tier 1 leverage ratio.

5. 
   Amounts include loans held for investment (net of allowance) and loans held for sale but exclude loans at fair value,
which are included in Trading assets in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).     

6. 
   For a discussion of Global Liquidity Reserve, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Risk Management Framework Global Liquidity Reserve  herein.     

7. 
   Book value per common share equals common shareholders  equity divided by common shares outstanding.
        Consolidated Results: 2016 Compared with 2015        

Results for 2016 included net discrete tax benefits of $68 million or $0.04 per diluted common share,
primarily related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, partially offset by adjustments for other tax matters. Results for 2015 included net
discrete tax benefits of $564 million or $0.29 per diluted common share, primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated, and positive revenues
due to the impact of debt valuation adjustment ( DVA ) of $618 million or $0.20 per diluted common share. For a further discussion of the net discrete tax
bene-    

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

fits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein.     

Effective January 1, 2016, we early adopted a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  that requires unrealized gains and losses from debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (i.e., DVA) to be presented in other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ) as
opposed to Trading revenues. Results for 2015 and 2014 are not restated pursuant to that guidance.         

Net revenues were $34,631 million and net income applicable to Morgan Stanley was $5,979 million, or $2.92 per
diluted common share, in 2016 compared with net revenues of $34,537 million and net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $5,728 million, or $2.70 per diluted common share, excluding DVA in 2015. Excluding the net discrete tax benefits, net income
applicable to Morgan Stanley was $5,911 million, or $2.88 per diluted common share, in 2016 compared with net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $5,164 million, or $2.41 per diluted common share, excluding both DVA and the net discrete tax
benefits in 2015. (see  Selected Non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( Non-GAAP ) Financial Information  herein).     
   Consolidated Results: 2015 Compared with 2014        

Results for 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, or $0.29 per diluted common share,
primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated, and positive revenues due to the impact of DVA of $618 million, or $0.20 per diluted common share. Results for 2014 included net discrete tax
benefits of $2,226 million, or $1.13 per diluted common share, due to the release of a deferred tax liability associated with a legal entity restructuring, remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of
a multi-year tax examination, and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. For a further discussion of these net discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income
Tax Matters  herein. Results for 2014 also included positive revenues associated with DVA of $651 million, or $0.21 per diluted common share. Results for 2014 also included litigation costs related to residential mortgage-backed securities and
credit crisis matters of $3,083 million, or a loss of $1.47 per diluted common share, 2014 compensation actions of
approxi-    

mately $1,137 million (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein), or a loss of $0.39 per diluted common share, and
a funding valuation adjustment ( FVA ) implementation charge of $468 million, or a loss of $0.17 per diluted common share.         

Excluding DVA, net revenues were $34,537 million and net income applicable to Morgan Stanley was $5,728
million, or $2.70 per diluted common share, in 2015 compared with net revenues of $33,624 million, and net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $3,049 million, or $1.39 per diluted common share, in 2014. Excluding both DVA and the net discrete tax
benefits, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley was $5,164 million, or $2.41 per diluted common share, in 2015 compared with net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $823 million, or $0.26 per diluted common share, in 2014 (see  Selected
Non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( Non-GAAP ) Financial Information  herein). For a further discussion of the net discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax
Matters  herein.         Business Segment Net Revenues: 2016 Compared with 2015    

Institutional Securities net revenues of $17,459 million in 2016 decreased 3% compared with
$17,953 million in 2015, primarily as a result of lower Investment banking and sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher Other revenues.         

Wealth Management net revenues of $15,350 million in 2016 increased 2% from $15,100 million in 2015,
primarily as a result of growth in Net interest income, partially offset by lower Commissions and fees and Investment banking revenues.         
     Business Segment Net Revenues: 2015 Compared with 2014

Institutional Securities net revenues of $17,953 million in 2015 increased 6% compared with
$16,871 million in 2014, primarily as a result of higher sales and trading net revenues, partially offset by lower Other revenues and lower revenues in Investment banking.     

Wealth Management net revenues of $15,100 million in 2015 increased 1% from $14,888 million in 2014,
primarily as a result of higher Net interest income and asset management revenues, partially offset by lower transactional revenues.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Investment Management net revenues of $2,315 million in 2015 decreased 15% from $2,712 million in
2014, primarily reflecting the reversal of previously accrued carried interest, reduction in revenues attributable to  non-controlling  interests and markdowns on principal investments.     
   Consolidated  Non-Interest  Expenses: 2016 Compared with 2015    

Compensation and benefits expenses of $15,878 million in 2016 decreased 1% from $16,016 million in
2015, primarily due to a decrease in salaries, severance costs, discretionary incentive compensation and employer taxes, partially offset by an increase in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments.     

Consolidated  Non-Interest  Expenses: 2015 Compared with 2014    

Compensation and benefits expenses of $16,016 million in 2015 decreased 10% from $17,824 million in
2014, primarily as a result of the 2014 compensation actions, and a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments, related carried interest, and the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also
 Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).         

Non-compensation  expenses were $10,644 million in 2015 compared
with $12,860 million in 2014, representing a 17% decrease, primarily due to lower litigation costs in the Institutional Securities business segment associated with residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis-related matters.
        Return on Average Common Equity        

For 2016, the return on average common equity and the return on average common equity, excluding DVA was 8.0%,
or 7.9% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits. For 2015, the return on average common equity was 8.5%, or 7.8% excluding DVA, and 7.0% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits. For 2014, the return on average common equity was 4.8%,
or 4.1% excluding DVA, and 0.8% excluding DVA and the net discrete tax benefits. See  Selected  Non-Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles  ( Non-GAAP ) 
Financial Information  herein.     

Selected  Non-Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles  ( Non-GAAP )  Financial Information     We prepare our consolidated financial statements using
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). From time to time, we may disclose certain   non-GAAP  financial measures  in this document, or in the
course of our earnings releases, earnings and other conference calls, financial presentations and otherwise. A   non-GAAP  financial measure  excludes, or includes, amounts from the most directly
comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Non-GAAP  financial measures disclosed by us are provided as additional information to investors and analysts in order to provide them
with further transparency about, or as an alternative method for assessing, our financial condition, operating results or prospective regulatory capital requirements. These measures are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, U.S. GAAP and may
be different from or inconsistent with  non-GAAP  financial measures used by other companies. Whenever we refer to a  non-GAAP  financial measure, we will also generally
define it or present the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, along with a reconciliation of the differences between the U.S. GAAP financial measure and the
 non-GAAP  financial measure.    The principal  Non-GAAP 
financial measures presented in this document are set forth below.      Non-GAAP  Financial Measures by Business Segment

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Reconciliations from U.S. GAAP to  Non-GAAP  Consolidated Financial Measures
      
   N/M Not Meaningful  
 DVA represents the change in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in our credit spreads and other credit factors related to liabilities carried at
fair value under the fair value option, primarily certain Long-term and Short-term borrowings.  

1. 
    Pre-tax  profit margin is a  non-GAAP 
financial measure that we consider to be a useful measure to us, investors and analysts to assess operating performance and represents income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.     

2. 
   Average common equity and return on average common equity are  non-GAAP 
financial measures we consider to be useful measures to us, investors and analysts to assess capital adequacy and to allow better comparability of   period-to-period  
operating performance. Average common equity for each business segment is determined using our Required Capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure (see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Attribution
of Average Common Equity according to the Required Capital Framework  herein). Each business segment s return on average common equity equals net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less an allocation of preferred dividends as a percentage
of average common equity for that segment. Consolidated return on average common equity equals consolidated net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average common equity.     

3. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI in the consolidated comprehensive income statements. For 2015 and 2014, DVA gains (losses) were recorded within Trading revenues in the
consolidated income statements. See Notes 2 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.     

4. 
   Net revenues, excluding DVA, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, excluding DVA, net income applicable to Morgan
Stanley, excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits, earnings per diluted common share, excluding DVA, earnings per diluted common share, excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits and effective income tax rate from continuing operations,
excluding net discrete tax benefits, are  non-GAAP  financial measures we consider to be useful measures to us, investors and analysts to allow better comparability of   period-to-period   operating performance.     

5. 
   For a discussion of our net discrete tax benefits, see  Supplemental Financial Information and
Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein.

Consolidated  Non-GAAP  Financial Measures   

1. 
   The Average common equity, return on average common equity, average tangible common equity, return on average tangible
common equity and tangible book value per common share measures set forth in this table are all  non-GAAP  financial measures we consider to be useful measures to us, investors and analysts to assess capital
adequacy and to allow better comparability of   period-to-period   operating performance. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see  Liquidity and Capital
Resources Tangible Equity  herein.     

2. 
   Return on average common equity equals consolidated net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as
a percentage of average common equity. Effective January 1, 2016, as a result of the adoption of a provision of the accounting update related to DVA, we have redefined the calculations of the return on average common equity excluding DVA, and
excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits to adjust for DVA only in the denominator. Prior to January 1, 2016, for the return on average common equity measures, where DVA is excluded, both the numerator and denominator were adjusted to
exclude the impact of DVA. When excluding the net discrete tax benefits, both the numerator and denominator are adjusted to exclude that item in all periods.     

4. 
   Return on average tangible common equity equals net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a
percentage of average tangible common equity. Effective January 1, 2016, as a result of the adoption of a provision of the accounting update related to DVA, we have redefined the calculations of return on average tangible common equity
excluding DVA, and excluding DVA and net discrete tax benefits to adjust for DVA only in the denominator. Prior to January 1, 2016, for the return on average tangible common equity measures, where DVA is excluded, both the numerator and the
denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA. When excluding the net discrete tax benefits, both the numerator and denominator are adjusted to exclude that item in all periods. The impact of DVA was insignificant in 2016 and 0.8% and 0.9%
in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The impact of the net discrete tax benefits was 0.1%, 0.9% and 3.9% in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.     

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Return on Equity Target   
 We are aiming to improve our return to shareholders and, accordingly, have established a target return on average common equity ( Return
on Equity Target ) of 9% to 11%, excluding DVA to be achieved by 2017, subject to the successful execution of our strategic objectives. We plan to progress toward achieving our Return on Equity Target through the following key elements of our
strategy:     

Revenue and profitability growth:    

Wealth Management  pre-tax  margin improvement to approximately 23% to
25% through net interest income growth via continued high-quality lending, expense efficiency and business growth;         

Continued strength in Investment Banking and Equity Sales and Trading results;     

Stable performance in Fixed Income Sales and Trading and Investment Management;     

Expense efficiency:    

Successful completion of Project Streamline, our expense savings program launched in 2016 to reduce expenses
by $1 billion by 2017 (not including any outsized litigation expense or penalties) assuming a flat revenue environment, resulting in an expense efficiency target ratio of 74%;     

Sufficient capital:     

Increasing capital returns to shareholders, subject to regulatory approval.     
 Our Return on Equity Target and the related strategies and goals are forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by many
factors, including, among other things: macroeconomic and market conditions; legislative and regulatory developments; industry trading and investment banking volumes; equity market levels; interest rate environment; legal expenses and the
ability to reduce expenses in general; capital levels; and discrete tax items. Given the uncertainties surrounding these and other factors, there are significant risks that our Return on Equity Target and the related strategies and goals may
not be realized. Actual results may differ from our goals and targets, and the differences may be material and adverse. Accordingly, we caution that undue reliance should not be placed on any of these forward-looking statements. See
 Forward-Looking Statements  immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A for additional information regarding these forward-looking
statements. 
 
  Return on average common equity and  pre-tax  margin are  non-GAAP  financial measures that we consider to be a useful measure to us, investors and analysts to assess operating performance. See  Selected  Non-Generally  Accepted
Accounting Principles  ( Non-GAAP )  Financial Information  herein. Our expense efficiency ratio represents total  non-interest  expenses as a percentage of
net revenues. For 2016, our expense efficiency ratio was 74.5%, which was calculated as  non-interest  expenses of $25,783 million divided by net revenues of $34,631 million.  
    Business Segments   
 Substantially all of our operating revenues and operating expenses are directly attributable to our business segments. Certain revenues and
expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues,  non-interest  expenses or other relevant measures.  
 As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, we include an Intersegment Eliminations
category to reconcile the business segment results to our consolidated results.      Net Revenues    
  Investment Banking.     Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from
the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.  
  Trading.       Trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial
instruments in which we act as a market maker, as well as gains and losses on our related positions and other positions carried at fair value. Trading revenues include the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and derivative
settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of our positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and other
positions carried at fair value. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and
dividends from equity securities are also recorded in Trading revenues since they relate to positions carried at fair value.    As a market
maker, we stand ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and to provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. Our liquidity obligations can be explicit in some cases, and in
others, customers expect us to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill our

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

market-making function, we engage in activities across all of our trading businesses that include, but are not limited to:  

(i) 
   taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to, customer demand to buy or sell and depending on
the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position to hold those positions for a period of time;         

(ii) 
   managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks
and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks;         

(iii) 
   building, maintaining and rebalancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging
in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand;         

(iv) 
   trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and     

(v) 
   engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets.     
 Although not included in Trading revenues, Interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities, as debt securities held
by us earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.    We
often invest in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge our obligations under certain deferred compensation plans. Changes in the value of such investments are recorded in either Trading revenues or Investments revenues.
Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits. Generally, changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in fair value of the referenced investment will be offset by changes in
fair value of the investments made by us.     Investments.     Our investments generally are held for long-term
appreciation, or as discussed above, for hedging purposes and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light
of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products.  
 The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes
of our holdings, as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and  co-investment  plans.

Typically, there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the
investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in certain Investment Management funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of time where we are clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse.
Additionally, there are certain sponsored Investment Management funds consolidated by us primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.  
  Commissions and Fees.       Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and   over-the-counter   ( OTC ) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.
Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in Commissions and fees. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them, and fees for any related
services are recorded in Commissions and fees.     Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.       Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain
funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.    Asset management,
distribution and administration fees in the Wealth Management business segment also include revenues from individual and institutional investors electing a  fee-based  pricing arrangement and fees for Investment
Management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Wealth Management business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of
assets under management or supervision.    Asset management fees in the Investment Management business segment arise from investment
management services we provide to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. We receive fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles.
Performance-based fees in the Investment Management business segment are earned on certain products as a percentage of appreciation earned by those products and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees
are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Net Interest.       Interest income and Interest expense are a
function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including Trading assets and Trading liabilities; Investment securities, which include available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities and held-to-maturity ( HTM ) securities;
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell; Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase; Loans; Deposits; Other short-term borrowings; Long-term borrowings; trading strategies; customer activity in the prime brokerage
business; and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates.     Other.       Other
revenues include revenues from equity method investments, realized gains and losses on AFS securities, gains and losses on loans held for sale, provision for loan losses, and other miscellaneous revenues.  
   Net Revenues by Segment    
  Institutional Securities.       Net revenues are composed of Investment banking revenues, Sales and trading net
revenues, Investments and Other revenues.    For information about the composition of Investment banking revenues, see  Net
Revenues  herein.         Sales and trading net revenues are composed of Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset
management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest. In assessing the profitability of our sales and trading activities, we view these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to trading are based on an overall
review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated
commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging our positions and other related expenses.  
 Sales and trading revenues are broken down into major business lines as follows: equity, fixed income and other. See  Sales and Trading
Activities Equity and Fixed Income  for a description of the activities within equity and fixed income. Other sales and trading revenues include impacts from certain central treasury functions, such as liquidity costs and gains (losses) on
economic hedges related to long-term borrowings, as well as certain activities associated with corporate lending activities.    For
information about revenue from Investments, see  Net Revenues  herein.    Other revenues include revenues from equity method
investments, gains and losses on loans held for sale, provision for loan losses, and other miscellaneous revenues.     Wealth
Management.       Net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues.

Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Trading, and Commissions and fees. Investment
banking revenues include revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings,  closed-end  funds and unit trusts. Trading revenues
include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments, in which we act as principal, and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Revenues from Commissions and fees primarily arise
from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.   Asset
management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees, and referral fees related to the bank deposit program.  
 Net interest income includes interest related to the bank deposit program, interest on AFS securities and HTM securities, interest on lending
activities and other net interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities. Net interest is driven by securities-based lending, mortgage lending, margin loans, securities borrowed and
securities loaned transactions, and bank deposit program activity.    Other revenues include revenues from realized gains and losses on AFS
securities, provision for loan losses, referral fees and other miscellaneous revenues.     Investment
Management.       Investments revenue is primarily earned on investments in certain  closed-end  funds that generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally subject to
sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate materially over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.
   For information about the composition of Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees, see  Net Revenues 
herein.           Compensation Expense    
 Compensation and benefits expense includes accruals for base salaries and fixed allowances, formulaic programs, discretionary incentive
compensation, amortization of deferred cash and equity awards, changes in fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments, carried interest, severance costs, and other items such as health and welfare benefits. The factors that drive
compensation for our employees vary from quarter to quarter, from segment to segment and within a segment. For certain revenue-producing employees in the Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, compensation is largely paid

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

on the basis of formulaic payouts that link employee compensation to revenues. Compensation for certain employees, including revenue-producing employees in the Institutional Securities business
segment, may also include incentive compensation that is determined following the assessment of the Firm, business unit and individual performance. Compensation for our remaining employees is largely fixed in nature (e.g., base salary, benefits,
etc.).    Compensation expense for deferred cash-based compensation plans is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted,
adjusted for upward and downward changes in fair value of the referenced investment, and is recognized ratably over the prescribed vesting period for the award. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate revenue recognition of
gains and losses on our investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.      Income Taxes
     The income tax provision for our business segments is generally determined based on the revenues, expenses and activities
directly attributable to each business segment. Certain items have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues or other relevant
measures. 

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Institutional Securities   
  Income Statement Information       
   N/M Not Meaningful  
   Investment Banking       Investment Banking Revenues

Investment Banking Volumes       

1. 
   Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 17, 2017. Completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full
credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of
net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.     

2. 
   Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more.     

3. 
   Amounts include Rule 144A issuances and registered public offerings of common stock and convertible securities and
rights offerings.     

4. 
   Amounts include  non-convertible  preferred stock, mortgage-backed and
asset-backed securities, and taxable municipal debt. Amounts include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and  self-led  issuances.     
  2016 Compared with 2015     Investment
banking revenues of $4,476 million in 2016 decreased 11% from 2015 due to lower underwriting revenues, partially offset by an increase in advisory revenues in 2016.      

Advisory revenues increased reflecting the higher dollar volume of completed merger, acquisition and
restructuring transactions ( M A ) activity (see Investment Banking Volumes table). As the number of completed transactions decreased in 2016 versus 2015, the 2016 revenue increase was at a lower rate than the percentage increase
in dollar volume.         

Equity underwriting revenues decreased as a result of lower equity-related offerings in 2016 (see Investment
Banking Volumes table). Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased in 2016, primarily due to lower bond and loan fees.        2015
Compared with 2014     Investment banking revenues of $5,008 million in 2015 decreased 4% from 2014 due to lower underwriting
revenues, partially offset by higher advisory revenues.      

Advisory revenues increased led primarily by M A fee realization in the Americas.     

Equity underwriting revenues decreased on reduced volumes driven by lower initial public offerings (see
Investment Banking Volumes table). Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased primarily driven by lower  non-investment  grade bond and loan fees.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Sales and Trading Net Revenues    
  By Income Statement Line Item       
    By Business       

1. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI in the consolidated comprehensive income statements. In 2015 and 2014, DVA gains (losses) were recorded within Trading revenues in the
consolidated income statements. See Notes 2 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.     

2. 
   Represents the initial implementation of FVA.     

3. 
   Effective in 2016, the Institutional Securities  Fixed Income and Commodities  business has been renamed the
 Fixed Income  business.       Sales and trading net revenues, including equity and fixed income sales and trading
net revenues that exclude the impact of DVA in 2015, or exclude the impact of DVA and the initial implementation of FVA in 2014, are  non-GAAP  financial measures that we consider useful for us, investors and
analysts to allow further comparability of   period-to-period   operating performance.  
     Sales and Trading Activities       Equity and Fixed Income      
 Following is a description of the sales and trading activities within our equities and fixed income businesses as well as

how their results impact the income statement line items, followed by a presentation and explanation of results.  
  Equities Financing.     We provide financing and prime brokerage services to our clients active in the equity
markets through a variety of products including margin lending, securities lending and swaps. Results from this business are largely driven by the difference between financing income earned and financing costs incurred, which are reflected in Net
interest for securities and equity lending products and in Trading revenues for derivative products.     Equities Execution
services.     We make markets for our clients in equity-related securities and derivative products, including providing liquidity and hedging products. A significant portion of the results for this business is generated by
commissions and fees from executing and clearing client transactions on major stock and derivative exchanges as well as from OTC transactions. Market-making also generates gains and losses on inventory, which are reflected in Trading revenues.  
  Fixed income  Within fixed income we make markets in order to facilitate client activity as part of the following products and
services.      

Global macro products.     We make markets for our clients in interest rate, foreign
exchange and emerging market products, including exchange-traded and OTC securities, loans and derivative instruments. The results of this market-making activity are primarily driven by gains and losses from buying and selling positions to stand
ready for and satisfy client demand and are recorded in Trading revenues.         

Credit products.     We make markets in credit-sensitive products, such as corporate
bonds and mortgage securities and other securitized products, and related derivative instruments. The value of positions in this business are sensitive to changes in credit spreads and interest rates, which result in gains and losses reflected in
Trading revenues. Due to the amount and type of the interest-bearing securities and loans making up this business, a significant portion of the results is also reflected in Net interest revenues.     

Commodities products.     We make markets in various commodity products related
primarily to electricity, natural gas, oil, and precious metals, with the results primarily reflected in Trading revenues.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Sales and Trading Net Revenues Equity and Fixed Income   

1. 
   Includes Commissions and fees and Asset management, distribution and administration fees.     

2. 
   Funding costs are allocated to the businesses based on funding usage and are included in Net interest in the previous
tables. Such allocations were estimated for prior periods to conform to the current presentation.     

3. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI in the consolidated comprehensive income statements. In 2015 and 2014, the DVA gains (losses) were recorded within Trading revenues in the
consolidated income statements. See Notes 2 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.     
 As discussed in  Net Revenues by Segment  herein, we manage each of the sales and trading businesses based on its aggregate net
revenues, which are comprised of the consolidated income statement line items quantified in the previous table. Trading revenues are affected by a variety of market dynamics, including volumes,  bid-offer 
spreads, and inventory prices, as well as impacts from hedging activity, which are interrelated. We provide qualitative commentary in the discussion of results that follow on the key drivers of period

over period variances, as the quantitative impact of the various market dynamics typically cannot be disaggregated.  
 For additional information on total Trading revenues, see the table  Trading Revenues by Product Type  in Note 4 to the consolidated
financial statements in Item 8.     2016 Compared with 2015   
   Equity      Excluding the
$163 million positive impact of DVA on 2015 results, equity sales and trading net revenues of $8,037 million in 2016 were lower than 2015, reflecting lower results in both financing and execution services revenues.  

Financing revenues were in line with the results from 2015 as Net interest revenues declined from higher net
interest costs, reflecting the business  increased portion of global liquidity reserve requirements, offset by increased client activity in equity swaps reflected in Trading.     

Execution services decreased 2% from 2015, primarily reflecting a decrease in fee revenues of
$196 million due to reduced client activity.         Fixed Income    
 Excluding the $455 million positive impact of DVA on 2015 results, fixed income net revenues of $5,117 million in 2016 were 19%
higher than 2015, primarily due to improved results in credit products.      

Credit products Trading revenues were the primary driver for the overall increase in fixed income Trading
revenues of $782 million, reflecting an improved credit market environment that resulted in gains on inventory in 2016 compared with losses in 2015.         

Overall results from other fixed income businesses were relatively unchanged. There was a net increase in
Trading revenues from global macro products, reflecting gains on inventory in interest rate products, offset by declines in commodities activities, primarily due to the absence of revenues from the global oil merchanting business, which was sold on
November 1, 2015. For more information on the sale of the global oil merchanting business, see  Investments, Other Revenues,  Non-interest  Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other
Items 2015 Compared with 2014 Dispositions  herein.         Other    

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

2015 Compared with 2014   
   Equity      Equity sales and trading
net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA and the implementation of FVA, increased reflecting higher results in financing and execution services revenues.      

Financing revenues increased 19% from 2014 with an increase in client balances and derivative activity
reflected in the $457 million increase in Trading revenues primarily from equity swaps and a $103 million increase in Net interest revenues for securities.     

Execution services increased 17% from 2014, primarily due to the $587 million increase in Trading
revenues from client activity in derivatives and reduced inventory losses compared with the prior year.         Fixed Income    
 Excluding the $455 million positive impact of DVA on 2015 results, and the $419 million positive impact of DVA and the
$466 million negative impact from the implementation of FVA on 2014 results, fixed income net revenues of $4,303 million in 2015 were 1% higher than 2014 due to improved results in global macro and commodities products, offset by lower
results in credit products.      

Global macro products results increased from 2014, primarily due to an increase in Trading revenues due to
improved results in interest rate products as a result of inventory gains and improved performance in foreign exchange products         

Credit products decreased, primarily driven by a decrease in Trading revenues from lower results in credit and
securitized products from a widening credit spread environment, which led to inventory losses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in Net interest revenues, driven primarily by a change in the product mix in the securitized products
group assets.         

Commodities products net revenues increased, primarily reflecting higher revenues from the global oil
merchanting business, which was sold on November 1, 2015. The increase was partially offset by credit-driven losses and the absence of revenues from TransMontaigne Inc., which was sold on July 1, 2014 (see  Investments, Other
Revenues,  Non-interest  Expenses, Income Tax Items, Dispositions and Other Items 2015 Compared with 2014 Dispositions  herein).

Investments, Other Revenues,  Non-interest  Expenses, Income Tax
Items, Dispositions and Other Items       2016 Compared with 2015   
   Investments        

Net investment gains of $147 million in 2016 decreased from 2015 as a result of lower gains on real
estate and business-related investments and losses on investments associated with our compensation plans compared with gains in 2015.     
   Other        

Other revenues of $535 million in 2016 increased from 2015, primarily reflecting   mark-to-market   gains on loans held for sale in 2016 compared with   mark-to-market   losses in
2015, partially offset by lower results related to our 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. ( MUMSS ) (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information).
         Non-interest  Expenses    
  Non-interest  expenses of $12,336 million in 2016 decreased from 2015, primarily reflecting a 3%
reduction in Compensation and benefits expenses and an 11% reduction in  Non-compensation  expenses in 2016.      

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased in 2016, primarily due to a decrease in salaries, severance
costs, discretionary incentive compensation and employer taxes, partially offset by an increase in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments.     

Non-compensation  expenses decreased in 2016, primarily due to lower
litigation costs and Professional services expense. In 2015,  Non-compensation  expenses included increases to reserves for the settlement of a credit default swap ( CDS ) antitrust litigation matter
and legacy residential mortgage-backed securities matters.        2015 Compared with 2014   
   Investments        
     Other        

Other revenues of $221 million in 2015 decreased 68% from 2014 due to the absence of gains realized on
certain assets sold in 2014 (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8) and markdowns and provisions on loans held for sale and held for investment.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Non-interest  Expenses    
  Non-interest  expenses of $13,282 million in 2015 decreased 22% from 2014 driven by a 25%
reduction in  Non-compensation  expenses and a 17% reduction in Compensation and benefits expenses.      

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased, primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in
the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments and a decrease in the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive
Compensation  herein).         

Non-compensation  expenses decreased, primarily due to lower litigation
costs.        Income Tax Items   
 In 2016, we recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $83 million. These net discrete tax
benefits were primarily related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, partially offset by adjustments for other tax matters.  
 In 2015, we recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $564 million. These net discrete tax
benefits were primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify our legal entity organization in the United
Kingdom ( U.K. ).    In 2014, we recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of
$839 million. This included net discrete tax benefits of $612 million principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination and
$237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. In addition, our Provision for (benefit from) income taxes was impacted by
approximately $900 million of tax provision as a result of  non-deductible  expenses related to litigation and regulatory matters.

Dispositions   
 On November 1, 2015, we completed the sale of our global oil merchanting unit of the commodities division to Castleton Commodities
International LLC. The loss on sale of approximately $71 million was recognized in Other revenues.    On July 1, 2014, we
completed the sale of our ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc., a U.S.-based oil storage, marketing and transportation company, as well as related physical inventory and the assumption of our obligations under certain terminal storage contracts,
to NGL Energy Partners LP. The gain on sale of $112 million was recognized in Other revenues.    On March 27, 2014, we completed
the sale of Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc., a public storage terminal operator for refined products with two distribution terminals in Canada. The gain on sale was approximately $45 million and was recognized in Other revenues.  
  Other Items       Japanese Securities Joint Venture
     We hold a 40% voting interest and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS.
   To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital level, MUFG is solely responsible for
providing this additional capital to a minimum level, whereas we are not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in
regulatory requirements, both MUFG and we are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon the economic interest as set forth above.  
 See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  
   Noncontrolling Interests    
 Noncontrolling interests primarily relate to MUFG s interest in Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Wealth Management   
  Income Statement Information       
   N/M Not Meaningful  

1. 
   Effective July 1, 2016, the Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments entered into an
agreement, whereby Institutional Securities assumed management of Wealth Management s fixed income client-driven trading activities and employees. Institutional Securities now pays fees to Wealth Management based on distribution activity
(collectively, the  Fixed Income Integration ). Prior periods have not been recast for this new intersegment agreement due to immateriality.

Statistical Data   
  Financial Information and Statistical Data       

1. 
    Fee-based  client assets represent the amount of assets in client accounts where
the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those assets.     

2. 
   Client liabilities include securities-based and tailored lending, residential real estate loans and margin lending.

3. 
   Revenues per representative equal Wealth Management s net revenues divided by the average representative
headcount.     

4. 
   Client assets per representative equal total  period-end  client assets divided
by  period-end  representative headcount.     

5. 
    Fee-based  asset flows include net new
 fee-based  assets, net account transfers, dividends, interest and client fees and exclude institutional cash management-related activity.     
  Transactional Revenues       

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

2016 Compared with 2015   
  Net Revenues       Transactional Revenues    
 Transactional revenues of $3,090 million in 2016 decreased 7% from the prior year, primarily reflecting lower revenues related to
commissions and fees and investment banking revenues, partially offset by higher trading revenues.      

Investment banking revenues decreased in 2016, primarily due to lower revenues from the distribution of unit
investment trusts, equity and structured products.         

Trading revenues increased in 2016, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain
employee deferred compensation plans compared with losses in 2015.         

Commissions and fees decreased in 2016 reflecting lower daily average commissions, primarily due to reduced
client activity in equity, annuity and mutual fund products. This decrease was partially offset by increased fees due to the Fixed Income Integration.     
   Asset Management      Asset
management, distribution and administration fees of $8,454 million in 2016 decreased 1% from the prior year, primarily due to the decrease in mutual fund fees. Revenues from  fee-based  accounts were
relatively flat with decreased client fee rates, partially offset by positive flows. See   Fee-Based  Client Assets Activity and Average Fee Rate by Account Type  herein for more details.  
   Net Interest      Net interest of
$3,529 million in 2016 increased 19% from the prior year, primarily due to higher loan balances and investment portfolio yields.      Other
     Other revenues of $277 million in 2016 increased 9% from the prior year due to the combination of higher referral fees in
2016 and a decrease in provision for loan losses in 2016.      Non-interest  Expenses  
  Non-interest  expenses of $11,913 million in 2016 increased 1% from the prior year.  

Compensation and benefits expenses increased in 2016, primarily due to an increase in the fair value of
deferred compensation plan referenced investments.

Non-compensation expenses increased in 2016, primarily as a result of a $70 million provision related to
certain brokerage service reporting activities. See  Other Items  herein.        2015 Compared with 2014   
  Net Revenues       Transactional Revenues    
 Transactional revenues of $3,335 million in 2015 decreased 14% from the prior year due to lower revenues in each of Trading, Investment
banking, and Commissions and fees.      

Investment banking revenues decreased, primarily due to lower revenues from the distribution of underwritten
offerings.         

Trading revenues decreased, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee
deferred compensation plans and lower revenues from fixed income products.         

Commissions and fees decreased, primarily due to lower revenues from equity, mutual fund and annuity products,
partially offset by higher revenues from alternative asset classes.         Asset Management    
 Asset management, distribution and administration fees of $8,536 million in 2015 increased 2% from the prior year, primarily due to
higher  fee-based  revenues that resulted from positive flows and higher average market values over 2015 as compared with the average market values during 2014. The increase in
 fee-based  revenues was partially offset by lower referral fees from the bank deposit program, reflecting the completion of the transfer of deposits from Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) to us in connection
with the former retail securities joint venture between the Firm and Citi. See   Fee-Based  Client Assets Activity and Average Fee Rate by Account Type  herein for more details.  
   Net Interest      Net interest of
$2,956 million in 2015 increased 26% from the prior year, primarily due to higher balances in the bank deposit program and growth in loans and lending commitments.  
   Other      Other revenues of
$255 million in 2015 decreased 20% from the prior year, primarily due to a $40 million gain on sale of a retail property space in the prior year and an increase in the provision for loan losses in 2015.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Non-interest  Expenses  
  Non-interest  expenses of $11,768 million in 2015 decreased 1% from the prior year, primarily due
to lower Compensation and benefit expenses, partially offset by higher  Non-compensation  expenses.      

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased, primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in
the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments and a decrease in the level of discretionary incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive
Compensation  herein).         

Non-compensation  expenses increased, primarily due to an increase in
Professional services, resulting from increased consulting and legal fees, partially offset by a provision related to a rescission offer in the prior year. Other expenses in 2014 included $50 million related to a rescission offer to Wealth
Management clients who may not have received a prospectus for certain securities transactions, for which delivery of a prospectus was required.     
  Income Tax Items     In 2014, we recognized
in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes net discrete tax benefits of $1,390 million due

to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of an internal restructuring to simplify our legal entity organization. For a further discussion of these net discrete tax benefits, see
 Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Income Tax Matters  herein.     Other Items   
 The Firm has identified operational issues that resulted in the reporting of incorrect cost basis tax information to the Internal Revenue
Service ( IRS ) and retail brokerage clients for tax years 2011 through 2016. Most of our clients are not impacted by these issues. However, these issues have affected a significant number of client accounts. In the case of clients for
whom the Firm has determined that there have been tax underpayments to the IRS as a result of these issues, the Firm is in advanced discussions with the IRS to resolve client tax underpayments to the IRS caused by these issues at no expense to our
clients. In the case of clients for whom the Firm has determined that there have been tax overpayments to the IRS as a result of these issues, the Firm plans to notify them and to offer to pay them an amount equivalent to their overpayment to the
IRS. The $70 million provision referred to above is based on currently available information and analyses, and our review of these issues is continuing.

Fee-Based  Client Assets Activity and Average Fee Rate by Account Type   
 Wealth Management earns fees based on a contractual percentage of  fee-based  client assets related to
certain account types that we offer. These fees, which we record in the Asset management, distribution and administration fees line on its income statement, are earned based on the client assets in the specific account types in which the client
participates and are generally not driven by asset class. For most account types, fees are billed in the first month of each quarter based on the related client assets as of the end of the prior quarter. Across the account types, fees will vary
based on both the distinct services provided within each account type and on the level of household assets under supervision in Wealth Management.      

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

bps Basis points  

1. 
   Includes  non-custody  account values reflecting prior  quarter-end  balances due to a lag in the reporting of asset values by third-party custodians.     

Inflows  include new accounts, account transfers, deposits, dividends and interest.

Outflows  include closed or terminated accounts, account transfers, withdrawals and client fees.

Market impact  includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments.

Separately managed accounts  Accounts by which third-party asset managers are engaged to manage
clients  assets with investment decisions made by the asset manager. One third-party asset manager strategy can be held per account.         

Unified managed accounts  Accounts that provide the client with the ability to combine separately
managed accounts, mutual funds and exchange traded funds all in one aggregate account. Unified managed accounts can be client-directed, financial advisor-directed or directed by us (with  directed  referring to the investment direction or
decision/discretion/power of attorney).

Mutual fund advisory  Accounts that give the client the ability to systematically allocate assets
across a wide range of mutual funds. Investment decisions are made by the client.         

Representative as advisor  Accounts where the investment decisions must be approved by the client
and the financial advisor must obtain approval each time a change is made to the account or its investments.         

Representative as portfolio manager  Accounts where a financial advisor has discretion
(contractually approved by the client) to make ongoing investment decisions without the client s approval for each individual change.         

Cash management  Accounts where the financial advisor provides discretionary cash management
services to institutional clients, whereby securities or proceeds are invested and reinvested in accordance with the client s investment criteria. Generally, the portfolio will be invested in short- term fixed income and cash equivalent
investments.     

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Investment Management   
  Income Statement Information       
   N/M Not Meaningful  
  2016 Compared with 2015      Net Revenues   
   Investments        

Investments gains of $13 million in 2016 decreased 95% from the prior year reflecting weaker investment
performance compared with the prior year. This was partially offset by carried interest losses in 2015 associated with Asia private equity that did not  re-occur  in 2016.     
   Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees        

Asset management, distribution and administration fees of $2,063 million in 2016 were relatively
unchanged from the prior year, as increases in management fees resulting from higher assets under management or supervision ( AUM ) and average fee rates in certain products were offset by lower performance fees (see  AUM and Average
Fee Rate by Asset Class  herein).         Non-interest  Expenses  
  Non-interest  expenses of $1,825 million in 2016 were relatively unchanged from the prior year,
primarily due to higher

Non-compensation  expenses offset by lower Compensation and benefits expenses.      

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased, primarily due to a decrease in salaries.     

Non-compensation  expenses increased, primarily due to higher brokerage
clearing and exchange fees, partially offset by lower litigation costs and expense management.        2015 Compared with 2014   
  Net Revenues       Investments    

Investments gains of $249 million in 2015 decreased 58% from the prior year reflecting the reversal of
previously accrued carried interest associated with Asia private equity and additional net markdowns on principal investments.     
   Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees        

Asset management, distribution and administration fees were unchanged from the prior year as the impact of
positive net flows was offset by a shift in the asset class mix from equity and fixed income products to liquidity products (see  AUM and Average Fee Rate by Asset Class  herein).     
   Other        

Other revenues of $32 million in 2015 decreased 70% from the prior year due to lower revenues associated
with our minority investment in certain third-party investment managers.         Non-interest 
Expenses      Non-interest  expenses of $1,823 million in 2015 decreased 11% from the prior
year, primarily due to lower Compensation and benefit expenses, partially offset by higher  Non-compensation  expenses.      

Compensation and benefits expenses decreased, primarily due to the 2014 compensation actions, a decrease in
deferred compensation associated with carried interest and a decrease in the level of incentive compensation in 2015 (see also  Supplemental Financial Information and Disclosures Discretionary Incentive Compensation  herein).

Non-compensation  expenses increased, primarily due to higher brokerage
clearing and exchange fees, and professional services resulting from higher consulting and legal fees and information processing and communications expenses.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Assets Under Management or Supervision   
 Effective in 2016, the presentation of AUM for Investment Management has been revised to better align asset classes with its present
organizational structure. All prior period information has been recast in the new format.     AUM and Average Fee Rate by Asset Class   

bps Basis points  

1. 
   Includes $4.6 billion related to the transfer of certain equity portfolio managers and their portfolios from the
Wealth Management business segment to the Investment Management business segment.     

Inflows  represent investments or commitments from new and existing clients in new or existing
investment products, including reinvestments of client dividends and increases in invested capital. Excludes the impact of exchanges occurring, whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class.

Outflows  represent redemptions from clients  funds, transition of funds from the committed
capital period to the invested capital period and decreases in invested capital. Excludes the impact of exchanges occurring, whereby a client changes positions within the same asset class.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Distributions  represent decreases in invested capital due to returns of capital after the
investment period of a fund. It also includes fund dividends for which the client has not elected to reinvest.         

Market impact  includes realized and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio investments. This
excludes any funds where market impact does not impact management fees.         

Foreign currency impact  reflects foreign currency changes for
 non-U.S.  dollar denominated funds.         

Average fee rate  based on asset management and administration fees, net of waivers. It excludes
performance-based fees and other  non-management  fees. For certain  non-U.S.  funds, it includes the portion of advisory fees that the advisor collects on behalf of
third-party distributors. The payment of those fees to the distributor is included in  Non-compensation  expenses in the consolidated income statements.     

Alternative / Other products  asset class includes products in fund of funds, real estate, private
equity and credit strategies as well as multi-asset portfolios.         

Shares of minority stake assets  represent the Investment Management business segment s
proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.          Supplemental
Financial Information and Disclosures      Legal   
 We incurred legal expenses of $263 million in 2016, $563 million in 2015 and $3,364 million in 2014. Legal expenses are
included in Other expenses in the consolidated income statements.    Legal expenses incurred in 2015 were primarily related to increases
in reserves for the settlement of a credit default swap antitrust litigation matter and for legacy residential mortgage-backed securities matters. The legal expenses incurred in 2014 were principally due to reserve additions and settlements
related to legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis related matters, including our $2,600 million agreement with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division, which was reached on February 25, 2015 and
finalized on February 10, 2016 (see  Contingencies Legal  in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries   
 We provide loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through
our U.S. bank subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association ( MSPBNA ) (collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ). The lending activities in the Institutional
Securities business segment primarily include loans or lending commitments to corporate clients. The lending activities in the Wealth Management business segment primarily include securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against
the value of qualifying securities and also include residential real estate loans. We expect our lending activities to continue to grow through further market penetration of the Wealth Management business segment s client base. For a further
discussion of our credit risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk  in Item 7A. For further discussion about loans and lending commitments, see Notes 7 and 12 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8.     U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  Supplemental Financial Information Excluding Transactions with the Parent Company

2. 
   Other loans primarily include tailored lending.     
  Income Tax Matters      Effective Tax Rate   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

2016    
 Included in the effective tax rate for 2016 were net discrete tax benefits of $68 million, primarily related to the remeasurement of
reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, partially offset by adjustments for other tax matters. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from
continuing operations for 2016 would have been 31.6%, which is generally reflective of the geographic mix of earnings.      2015    
 Included in the effective tax rate for 2015 were net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, primarily associated with the repatriation of
 non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the legal entity organization in the U.K. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax
rate from continuing operations for 2015 would have been 32.5%.      2014    
 Included in the effective tax rate for 2014 were net discrete tax benefits of $2,226 million. These net discrete tax benefits consisted
of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability, previously established as part of the acquisition of Smith Barney in 2009 through a charge to Additional  paid-in  capital, as a
result of the legal entity restructuring that included a change in tax status of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC from a partnership to a corporation; $609 million principally associated with the remeasurement of reserves and related
interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than
originally estimated. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 would have been 59.5%, which is primarily attributable to approximately $900 million of tax provision from  non-deductible  expenses for litigation and regulatory matters.     Discretionary Incentive Compensation   
 On December 1, 2014, the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee ( CMDS Committee ) of our Board of
Directors (the  Board ) approved an approach for awards of discretionary incentive compensation for the 2014 performance year that were granted in 2015, which reduced the average deferral of such awards to an approximate baseline of 50%.
Additionally, the CMDS Committee approved the acceleration of vesting for certain outstanding deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards. The deferred cash-based incentive compensation

awards subject to accelerated vesting will be distributed on their regularly scheduled future distribution dates and will continue to be subject to cancellation and clawback provisions. The
following table presents the increase in Compensation and benefits expense for the Firm and each of the business segments as a result of these actions in 2014 ( 2014 compensation actions ).  
  2014 Compensation and Benefits Expense       

1. 
   Amount represents compensation and benefits expense at  pre-adjustment  accrual
levels ( i.e. , at an approximate average baseline 74% deferral rate and with no acceleration of cash-based award vesting that was utilized for the first three quarters of 2014).     

2. 
   Amounts reflect reduction in deferral level from an approximate average baseline of 74% to an approximate average
baseline of 50%.     

3. 
   Amounts represent acceleration of vesting for certain cash-based awards.     
    Accounting Development Updates   
 The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued the following accounting updates that apply to us.  
 We consider the applicability and impact of all accounting updates. Accounting updates not listed below were assessed and determined to be
either not applicable or are not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.    The following accounting
update was adopted on January 1, 2017.      

Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting .    This accounting update
simplifies the accounting for employee share-based payments, including the recognition of forfeitures, the classification of income tax consequences, and the classification within the cash flow statements. This guidance became effective for us as of
January 1, 2017, and the transition impact was not significant. With this update, the income tax consequences for these payments are required to be recognized in Provision for income taxes in the consolidated income statements instead of additional
paid-in capital. The impact of the income tax consequences may be either a benefit or a provision, and will primarily occur in the   first quarter of each year as share-based awards to   employees are

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

converted to Morgan Stanley shares. The impact of recognizing excess tax benefits upon conversion of awards in January 2017 was an approximate $110 million benefit to the Provision for income
taxes.       The following accounting updates are currently being evaluated to determine the potential impact of adoption:

Revenue from Contracts with Customers.     This accounting update aims to clarify
the principles of revenue recognition, to develop a common revenue recognition standard across all industries for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, and to provide enhanced disclosures for users of the financial statements.
The core principle of this guidance is that an entity should recognize revenues to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for
those goods or services. We will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2018 and are currently evaluating the method of adoption.     
 We expect this accounting update to potentially change the timing and presentation of certain revenues, as well as the timing
and presentation of certain related costs, for Investment banking fees and Asset management, distribution and administration fees. Outside of Investment Management performance fees in the form of carried interest, discussed further in the following
paragraph, these changes are not expected to be significant.    Regarding the recognition of performance fees from fund
management activities in the form of carried interest that are subject to reversal, there are alternative views in the industry which include consideration as to whether these arrangements are in the scope of the new revenue guidance or are
financial instruments under the scope of equity method of accounting. If we follow the equity method of accounting principles, the current recognition of such fees would remain essentially unchanged. If the fees are deemed in the scope of the
new revenue guidance, we would defer recognition until such fees are no longer subject to reversal, which would cause a significant delay in the recognition of these fees as revenue. We are currently assessing the alternative accounting approaches
and continue to closely monitor developments in this still-evolving area.    We will continue to assess the impact of the
new rule as we progress through the implementation of the new standard; therefore, additional impacts may be identified prior to adoption.      

Financial Instruments Credit Losses.     This accounting update impacts the
impairment model for certain financial assets measured at amortized cost such as loans held for investment and HTM securities. The amendments in this

update will accelerate the recognition of credit losses by replacing the incurred loss impairment methodology with a current expected credit loss ( CECL ) methodology that requires an
estimate of expected credit losses over the entire life of the financial asset. Additionally, although the CECL methodology will not apply to AFS debt securities, the update will require establishment of an allowance to reflect impairment of these
securities, thereby eliminating the concept of a permanent write-down. This update is effective as of January 1, 2020.         

Leases.     This accounting update requires lessees to recognize on the balance
sheet all leases with terms exceeding one year, which results in the recognition of a right of use asset and corresponding lease liability, including for those leases that we currently classify as operating leases. The right of use asset and lease
liability will initially be measured using the present value of the remaining rental payments. The accounting for leases where we are the lessor is largely unchanged. This update is effective as of January 1, 2019.     

Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets.     This accounting
update clarifies the guidance on how to account for the derecognition of nonfinancial assets and in substance nonfinancial assets and also provides guidance on the accounting for partial sales of nonfinancial assets. This update is effective as of
January 1, 2018.          Critical Accounting Policies   
 Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions (see Note
1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). We believe that of our significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.
    Fair Value       Financial Instruments Measured at
Fair Value      A significant number of our financial instruments are carried at fair value. We make estimates regarding valuation of
assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include, but are not limited to:      

Trading assets and Trading liabilities;     

Investment Securities AFS securities;     

Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell;     

Certain Deposits, primarily structured certificates of deposits;

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Certain Short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;     

Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;     

Certain Other secured financings; and     

Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.     
 Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the exit price) in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.    In determining fair value, we use various valuation approaches.
A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The
hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 represents quoted prices in active markets, Level 2 represents valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable,
and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many
instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from Level 1 to Level 2 or from Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many
instruments. For further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs
used in Level 3 fair value measurements, see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.    Where appropriate,
valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors such as liquidity risk  (bid-ask  adjustments), credit quality, model uncertainty and concentration risk in order to arrive at fair value. For a
further discussion of valuation adjustments that we apply, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.      Assets and Liabilities
Measured at Fair Value on a  Non-recurring  Basis      At December 31, 2016 and
December 31, 2015, certain of our assets and liabilities were measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs,
intangible assets, other assets and other liabilities, and accrued expenses. We incur losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
 non-recurring  basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable
inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.    See
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis.  
   Fair Value Control Processes      We
employ control processes designed to validate the fair value of our financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on
observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to ensure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are
reasonable.    See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our valuation policies,
processes and procedures.     Goodwill and Intangible Assets   
   Goodwill     We test goodwill for
impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. We test for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments.
Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of
the goodwill. For both the annual and interim tests, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of
a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.    If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine it is more
likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the  two-step  impairment test is not required. However, if we conclude otherwise, then we are
required to perform the first step of the  two-step  impairment test. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the
estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value,  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the
impairment.    The estimated fair value of the reporting units is derived based on valuation techniques we believe market participants would
use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair value is generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate
  price-to-book   and   price-to-earnings   multiples of certain comparable companies. At each
annual goodwill impairment testing date, each of our reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess of its carrying value.  
   Intangible Assets      Amortizable
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful life and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair
value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected
undiscounted cash flows.    For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes
the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could
result in impairment charges in future periods.    See Notes 2, 3 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional
information about goodwill and intangible assets.     Legal and Regulatory Contingencies   
 In the normal course of business, we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations,
class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution.  
 Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  
 We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by

governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, wealth and investment management services, financial products or
offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by us, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  
 Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a   case-by-case   basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and we can reasonably estimate the amount of
that loss, we accrue the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss.  
 For certain legal proceedings and investigations, we can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional
loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where
plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional range of loss can be
reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other
relief, and addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question.    Significant judgment
is required in deciding when and if to make these accruals, and the actual cost of a legal claim or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals.  
 See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.  
  Income Taxes     We are subject to the
income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and
the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make
estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each
taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years  examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for
unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.  
 Our provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Current income taxes approximate taxes to be paid or refunded for
the current period. Our deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the applicable enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Our deferred tax balances also include deferred assets related to tax attribute carryforwards, such as net operating losses and tax credits that will be realized through reduction of future
tax liabilities and, in some cases, are subject to expiration if not utilized within certain periods. We perform regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management s

estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income and incorporate various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to tax attribute carryforwards before they
expire. Once the deferred tax asset balances have been determined, we may record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset balances to reflect the amount of these balances (net of valuation allowance) that we estimate it is more likely
than not to realize at a future date. Both current and deferred income taxes could reflect adjustments related to our unrecognized tax benefits.  
 Significant judgment is required in estimating the consolidated provision for (benefit from) income taxes, current and deferred tax balances
(including valuation allowance, if any), accrued interest or penalties and uncertain tax positions. Revisions in estimates and/or the actual costs of a tax assessment may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized
tax benefits, if any.    See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our significant
assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our tax examinations.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   
 Senior management establishes liquidity and capital policies. Through various risk and control committees, senior management reviews business
performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity, interest rate and currency sensitivity of our asset and liability position. The Treasury Department, Firm Risk
Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee, and other committees and control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that our business activities have on our consolidated balance sheets, liquidity and capital
structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board and the Board s Risk Committee.     The Balance Sheet   
 We monitor and evaluate the composition and size of our balance sheet on a regular basis. Our balance sheet management process includes
quarterly planning, business-specific thresholds, monitoring of business-specific usage versus key performance metrics and new business impact assessments.  
 We establish balance sheet thresholds at the consolidated, business segment and business unit levels. We monitor balance sheet utilization and
review variances resulting from business activity or market fluctuations. On a regular basis, we review current performance versus established thresholds and assess the need to  re-allocate  our balance sheet
based on business unit needs. We also monitor key metrics, including asset and liability size and capital usage.     Total Assets by Business Segment   

1. 
   Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks and interest bearing deposits with banks.

2. 
   Other assets primarily includes Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other
regulations or requirements; Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets and deferred tax assets.     
 A substantial portion of total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and
trading activities in the Institutional Securities business segment. Total assets increased to $815 billion at December 31, 2016 from $787 billion at December 31, 2015, primarily due to increases in Trading assets within
Institutional Securities, including increases in highly liquid U.S. government and agency securities and corporate equities. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in Securities borrowed driven by a decrease in Trading
liabilities. Cash and cash equivalent balances resulting from bank deposits continued to be redeployed into Investment securities and lending activity primarily within the Wealth Management business segment. 
   Securities Repurchase Agreements and Securities Lending    
 Securities borrowed or securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or securities sold under agreements to repurchase
are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).     Collateralized Financing Transactions

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

At December 31, 2016, differences between period end balances and average balances during the three
months ended December 31, 2016 in the previous table were not significant. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned at December 31,
2015 were lower than the average balances during 2015. The balances moved in line with client financing activity and with general movements in Trading assets and liabilities. Additionally, included within securities financing transactions were
$14 billion and $11 billion at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, related to fully collateralized   securities-for-securities  
lending transactions represented in Trading assets.      Customer Securities Financing    
 The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer margin loans, collateralized by
customer-owned securities, which are segregated in accordance with regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes payables to our prime brokerage customers. Our risk exposure on
these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit our credit exposure to customers and liquidity reserves held against this risk exposure.  
  Liquidity Risk Management Framework     The
primary goal of our Liquidity Risk Management Framework is to ensure that we have access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions and time horizons. The framework is designed to enable us to fulfill our financial obligations and
support the execution of our business strategies.    The following principles guide our Liquidity Risk Management Framework:  

Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities and other planned and contingent
outflows;         

Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;

Source, counterparty, currency, region and term of funding should be diversified; and

Liquidity Stress Tests should anticipate, and account for, periods of limited access to funding.
      The core components of our Liquidity Risk Management Framework are the Required Liquidity Framework, Liquidity Stress
Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve (as defined below), which support our target liquidity profile.      Required Liquidity Framework    
 Our Required Liquidity Framework reflects the amount of liquidity we must hold in both normal and stressed environments to ensure that our
financial condition and overall soundness are not adversely affected by an inability (or perceived inability) to meet our financial obligations in a timely manner. The Required Liquidity Framework considers the most constraining liquidity
requirement to satisfy all regulatory and internal limits at a consolidated and legal entity level.      Liquidity Stress Tests    
 We use Liquidity Stress Tests to model external and intercompany liquidity flows across multiple scenarios and a range of time horizons. These
scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events of different severity and duration. The methodology, implementation, production and analysis of our Liquidity Stress Tests are important components of the Required
Liquidity Framework.    The scenarios or assumptions used by us in our Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the
following:      

No government support;     

No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;     

Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within the stress horizon;     

Higher haircuts for and significantly lower availability of secured funding;     

Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties, certain exchanges and clearing
organizations related to credit rating downgrades;         

Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled
collateral;         

Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;     

Drawdowns on lending commitments provided to third parties;

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;

Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets; and     

Maturity  roll-off  of outstanding letters of credit with no further
issuance.       Liquidity Stress Tests are produced for the Parent Company and major operating subsidiaries, as well as at
major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Firm, including a limited number of asset sales in a stressed environment. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity
first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent Company and that the Parent Company will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries  liquidity reserves. In addition to the assumptions underpinning
the Liquidity Stress Tests, we take into consideration settlement risk related to intraday settlement and clearing of securities and financing activities.  
 At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding
obligations as modeled in our Liquidity Stress Tests.      Global Liquidity Reserve    
 We maintain sufficient liquidity reserves to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the Required Liquidity
Framework and Liquidity Stress Tests. The size of the Global Liquidity Reserve is actively managed by us considering the following components: unsecured debt maturity profile; balance sheet size and composition; funding needs in a stressed
environment, inclusive of contingent cash outflows; legal entity, regional and segment liquidity requirements; regulatory requirements; and collateral requirements. In addition, our Global Liquidity Reserve includes a discretionary surplus based on
risk tolerance and is subject to change dependent on market and Firm-specific events. The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent Company and its major operating subsidiaries.  
  Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment       

1. 
    Non-U.S.  sovereign obligations are primarily composed of unencumbered German,
French, Dutch, U.K. and Japanese government obligations.

Global Liquidity Reserve Managed by Bank and  Non-Bank  Legal Entities   
   
    Regulatory Liquidity Framework   
   Liquidity Coverage Ratio      The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision s ( Basel Committee ) Liquidity Coverage Ratio ( LCR ) standard is designed to ensure that banking organizations have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net cash outflows
arising from significant stress over 30 calendar days. The standard s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banking organizations.  
 We and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the LCR requirements issued by U.S. banking regulators ( U.S. LCR ), which are
based on the Basel Committee s LCR, including a requirement to calculate each entity s U.S. LCR on each business day. As of January 1, 2017, we and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum of 100% of the fully  phased-in  U.S. LCR. In addition, effective April 1, 2017, we will be required to disclose certain quantitative and qualitative information related to our U.S. LCR calculation after each calendar quarter. We and
our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are compliant with the minimum required U.S. LCR based on current interpretations.      Net Stable Funding Ratio   
 The objective of the Net Stable Funding Ratio ( NSFR ) is to reduce funding risk over a
 one-year  horizon by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with sufficiently stable sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress.  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

The Basel Committee finalized the NSFR framework in 2014. In May 2016, the U.S. banking
regulators issued a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. The proposal would require a covered company to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is measured with reference to sources of funding, including deposit and debt
liabilities, that is no less than the amount of its required stable funding, which is measured by applying standardized weightings to its assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items.  
 If adopted as proposed, the requirements would apply to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries beginning January 1, 2018. We continue to
evaluate the potential impact of the proposal, which is subject to further rulemaking procedures following the closing of the public comment period. Our preliminary estimates, based on the current proposal, indicate that actions will be necessary to
meet the requirement, which we expect to accomplish by the effective date of the final rule. Our preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results based on the final rule to differ materially from estimates.
For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.     Funding Management
    We manage our funding in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to our operations. We pursue a strategy of diversification of
secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, investor and region) and attempt to ensure that the tenor of our liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.  
 We fund our balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include our equity capital, long-term borrowings,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ), securities lending, deposits, letters of credit and lines of credit. We have active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global
investors and currencies.      Secured Financing    
 A substantial portion of our total assets consist of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales
and trading activities in the Institutional Securities business. The liquid nature of these assets provides us with flexibility in managing the composition and size of our balance sheet. Our goal is to achieve an optimal mix of durable secured and
unsecured financing. Secured financing investors principally focus on the quality of the eligible collateral posted. Accordingly, we actively manage the secured financing book based on the quality of the assets being funded.

We utilize shorter-term secured financing only for highly liquid assets and have established
longer tenor limits for less liquid asset classes, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption. We define highly liquid assets as government-issued or government-guaranteed securities with a high degree of fundability and
less liquid assets as those that do not meet these criteria. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the weighted average maturity of our secured financing of less liquid assets was greater than 120 days. To further minimize the
refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets, we have established concentration limits to diversify our investor base and reduce the amount of monthly maturities for secured financing of less liquid assets. Furthermore, we obtain
term secured funding liabilities in excess of less liquid inventory as an additional risk mitigant to replace maturing trades in the event that secured financing markets, or our ability to access them, become limited. As a component of the Liquidity
Risk Management Framework, we hold a portion of our Global Liquidity Reserve against the potential disruption to our secured financing capabilities.  
 We also maintain a pool of liquid and easily fundable securities, which provide a valuable future source of liquidity. With the implementation
of liquidity standards, we have also incorporated high-quality liquid asset classifications that are consistent with the U.S. LCR definitions into our encumbrance reporting, which further substantiates the demonstrated liquidity characteristics of
the unencumbered asset pool and our ability to readily identify new funding sources for such assets.      Unsecured Financing    
 We view long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding. Unencumbered securities and
 non-security  assets are financed with a combination of long-term and short-term debt and deposits. Our unsecured financings include structured borrowings, whose payments and redemption values are based on the
performance of certain underlying assets, including equity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities. When appropriate, we may use derivative products to conduct asset and liability management and to make adjustments to our interest
rate and structured borrowings risk profile (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).     Deposits   
 Available funding sources to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries include demand deposit accounts, money market deposit accounts, time deposits,
repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

sourced from our retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable,  low-cost  funding characteristics. At December 31, 2016 and
December 31, 2015, deposits were $155,863 million and $156,034 million, respectively (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  
  Short-Term Borrowings     Our unsecured
short-term borrowings may primarily consist of structured notes, bank loans and bank notes with original maturities of 12 months or less. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had approximately $941 million and
$2,173 million, respectively, in short-term borrowings.     Long-Term Borrowings   
 We believe that accessing debt investors through multiple distribution channels helps provide consistent access to the unsecured markets. In
addition, the issuance of long-term borrowings allows us to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments. Long-term borrowings are generally managed to achieve staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize
investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients across regions, currencies and product types. Availability and cost of financing to us can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and
lending activities, our credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.    We may engage in various transactions in the credit
markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that we believe are in our investors  best interests.     Long-term Borrowings by Maturity Profile   
   
   Subsequent to December 31, 2016 and through February 21, 2017, long-term borrowings increased by
approximately $7.1 billion, net of maturities. This amount includes the issuances of senior debt; $7.0 billion on January 20, 2017 and $3.0 billion on February 17, 2017.  
   Trust Preferred Securities    
 During 2016, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V and Morgan Stanley Capital
Trust VIII redeemed all of their issued and outstanding Capital Securities pursuant to the

optional redemption provisions provided in the respective governing documents. In the aggregate, $2.8 billion was redeemed. We concurrently redeemed the related underlying junior
subordinated debentures.    For further information on long-term borrowings, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.
    Credit Ratings     We rely on external
sources to finance a significant portion of our   day-to-day   operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are impacted by our credit ratings, among other
things. In addition, our credit ratings can have an impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer-term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit
derivatives and interest rate swaps. Rating agencies consider company-specific factors; other industry factors such as regulatory or legislative changes and the macroeconomic environment, among other things.  
 Our credit ratings do not include any uplift from perceived government support from any rating agency given the significant progress of the
U.S. financial reform legislation and regulations. Meanwhile, some rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of credit rating uplift from  non-governmental  third-party sources
of potential support.     Parent Company and MSBNA s Senior Unsecured Ratings at February 21, 2017   

Parent Company  

Short-Term Debt 
   
  Long-Term  Debt 
   
 Rating Outlook  

DBRS, Inc.  
   
   R-1 (middle)   
   
  A(high)  
   
  Stable   
 
   Fitch Ratings, Inc.  
   
  F1  
   
  A  
   
  Stable   
 
   Moody s Investors Service, Inc.  
   
   P-2   
   
  A3  
   
  Stable   
 
   Rating and Investment Information, Inc.  
   
   a-1   
   
  A-  
   
  Stable   
 
   Standard   Poor s Global Ratings  
   
   A-2   
   
  BBB+  
   
  Stable   

Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.  

Short-Term  Debt 
   
  Long-Term  Debt 
   
 Rating Outlook  

Fitch Ratings, Inc.  
   
  F1  
   
  A+  
   
  Stable   
 
   Moody s Investors Service, Inc.  
   
   P-1   
   
  A1  
   
  Stable   
 
   Standard   Poor s Global Ratings 1   
   
   A-1   
   
  A+  
   
  Stable   

1. 
   On December 16, 2016, Standard   Poor s Global Ratings upgraded the long-term rating of MSBNA by one
notch to A+ from A following the release of the final total loss-absorbing capacity ( TLAC ) rule. The rating outlook was changed to Stable from Positive Watch.     
 In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements where we are a liquidity provider to certain financing
vehicles associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties or pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the
event of a future credit rating downgrade irrespective of whether we are in a net asset or net liability position.   The additional
collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and   can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and
Standard   Poor s Global Ratings ( S P ). The following table shows the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or exchanges and clearing
organizations in the event of  one-notch  or  two-notch  downgrade scenarios, from the lowest of Moody s or S P ratings, based on the relevant contractual downgrade
triggers.     Incremental Collateral or Terminating Payments upon Potential Future Rating Downgrade   
   
   While certain aspects of a credit rating downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions,
the impact it would have on our business and results of operations in future periods is inherently uncertain and would depend on a number of interrelated factors, including, among others, the magnitude of the downgrade, the rating relative
to peers, the rating assigned by the relevant agency  pre-downgrade,  individual client behavior and future mitigating actions we might take. The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is
included in our Liquidity Stress Tests.     Capital Management   
 We view capital as an important source of financial strength and actively manage our consolidated capital position based upon, among other
things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract our capital base to
address the changing needs of our businesses. We attempt to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of our operating subsidiaries  required equity.

Common Stock   
 We repurchased approximately $3,500 million of our outstanding common stock as part of our share repurchase program during 2016 and
$2,125 million during 2015 (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Pursuant to the share repurchase program, we consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as stock-based compensation and
benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases under our program will be exercised from time to time at prices we deem appropriate subject to various factors, including our capital position and market conditions. The share repurchases may be effected
through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule  10b5-1  plans, and may be suspended at any time. Share repurchases by us are subject to regulatory approval (see
 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5).  
 The Board determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. On January 17, 2017, we announced that the Board
declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.20. The dividend was paid on February 15, 2017 to common shareholders of record on January 31, 2017.  
  Preferred Stock     On December 15,
2016, we announced that the Board declared quarterly dividends for preferred stock shareholders of record on December 30, 2016 that were paid on January 17, 2017.  
  Series K Preferred Stock.  In January 2017, we issued 40,000,000 Depositary Shares, for an aggregate price of $1,000 million.
Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series
K, $0.01 par value ( Series K Preferred Stock ). The Series K Preferred Stock is redeemable at our option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after April 15, 2027 or (ii) in whole
but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share), plus any declared
and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Series K Preferred Stock also has a preference over our common stock upon liquidation. The Series K Preferred Stock offering
(net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $969 million.  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Preferred Stock Dividends       

Series  
    
 Preferred Stock Description 
    
 Quarterly Dividend per Share 

A      
    
 Floating Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock
and each having a dividend of $0.25556) 
    
 $ 
 255.56 

C      
    
 10%  Non-Cumulative   Non-Voting  Perpetual Preferred Stock 

25.00 

E      
    
   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by
depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.44531) 

445.31 

F      
    
   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by
depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.42969) 

429.69 

G      
    
 6.625%  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and
each having a dividend of $0.41406) 

414.06 

H      
    
   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by
depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $27.25000) 1  

681.25 

I      
    
   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by
depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.39844) 

398.44 

J      
    
   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock (represented by
depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $27.75000) 2  

693.75 

1. 
   Dividend on Series H Preferred Stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2019 and quarterly thereafter.

2. 
   Dividend on Series J Preferred Stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2020 and quarterly thereafter.

Tangible Equity       

1. 
   Tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity and tangible common equity are
 non-GAAP  financial measures that we and investors consider to be a useful measure to assess capital adequacy.

Regulatory Requirements   
   Regulatory Capital Framework      We
are a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and are subject to the regulation and oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal
Reserve ). The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for us, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates our compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC )
establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The regulatory capital requirements are largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee and also implement certain provisions
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ).    The Basel Committee has recently
published revisions to certain standards in its capital framework, including with respect to counterparty credit risk exposures in derivatives transactions, market risk, interest rate risk in the banking book, and securitization capital standards,
although these revisions have not yet been adopted by the U.S. banking agencies. In addition, the Basel Committee is actively considering other potential revisions to other capital standards that would substantially change the framework. The impact
on us of any revisions to the Basel Committee s capital standards could be substantial but is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the U.S. banking
agencies. 

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Regulatory Capital Requirements    
 We are required to maintain minimum risk-based and leverage capital ratios under the regulatory capital requirements. A summary of the
calculations of regulatory capital, risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ) and transition provisions follows.     Regulatory
Capital.    Minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements apply to Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital. Certain adjustments to and deductions from capital are required for purposes of determining these ratios,
such as goodwill, intangibles, certain deferred tax assets, other amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ) and investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions. Certain of these
adjustments and deductions are also subject to transitional provisions.    In addition to the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements,
on a fully  phased-in  basis by 2019, we will be subject to:      

A greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer;     

The Common Equity Tier 1 global systemically important bank
 ( G-SIB )  capital surcharge, currently at 3%; and         

Up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer ( CCyB ), currently set by banking
regulators at zero (collectively, the  buffers ).       In 2017, the
 phase-in  amount for each of the buffers is 50% of the fully  phased-in  buffer requirement. Failure to maintain the buffers would result in restrictions on our ability to
make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to

executive officers. For a further discussion of the  G-SIB  capital surcharge, see   G-SIB  Capital
Surcharge  herein.     Risk-Weighted Assets.    RWAs reflect both our  on-  and  off-balance  sheet risk as well as capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from the following:      

Credit risk: The failure of a borrower, counterparty or issuer to meet its financial obligations to us;

Market risk: Adverse changes in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities,
correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity; and         

Operational risk: Inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events
( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets).       For a further
discussion of our market, credit and operational risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Item 7A.  
 Our binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under (i) the standardized
approaches for calculating credit risk and market risk RWAs (the  Standardized Approach ) and (ii) the applicable advanced approaches for calculating credit risk, market risk and operational risk RWAs (the  Advanced
Approach ). At December 31, 2016, our binding ratios are based on the Advanced Approach transitional rules.    The methods for
calculating each of our risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as aspects of the capital rules are phased in. These changes may result in differences in our reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next
that are independent of changes to our capital base, asset composition,  off-balance  sheet exposures or risk profile.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Minimum Risk-Based Capital Ratios: Transitional Provisions   

1. 
   These ratios assume the requirements for the  G-SIB  capital surcharge (3.0%) and
CCyB (zero) remain at current levels. See  Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements  herein for additional capital requirements effective January 1, 2019.     

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Transitional and Fully  Phased-In  Regulatory Capital Ratios   

N/A Not Applicable  

1. 
   Adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the Tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily
balance of consolidated  on-balance  sheet assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain
deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.     

2. 
   The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio requirement is 4.0%.

The fully  phased-in  pro forma estimates in the previous
tables are based on our current understanding of the capital rules and other factors, which may be subject to change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance from the Federal Reserve and as the interpretation of the
regulations evolves over time. These fully  phased-in  pro forma estimates are  non-GAAP  financial measures that we consider to be useful measures for us, investors and
analysts in evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at December 31, 2016. These preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially
and should not be taken as a projection of what our capital, capital ratios, RWAs, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see  Risk
Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.     Well-Capitalized Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios for U.S. Bank Subsidiaries   
   
   For us to remain a financial holding company, our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must qualify as well-capitalized by
maintaining the minimum ratio requirements set forth in the previous table. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards required for us under the
capital rules. Assuming that the Federal Reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial holding companies, each of our risk-based capital ratios and Tier 1 leverage ratio at December 31, 2016 would have
exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. The Federal Reserve may require us to maintain risk- and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial
holding company s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Regulatory Capital Calculated under Advanced Approach Transitional Rules   

Rollforward of Regulatory Capital Calculated under Advanced Approach Transitional Rules   

1. 
   In connection with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement of
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , related to DVA, the aggregate balance of net  after-tax  valuation adjustments was reduced by $77 million as of January 1, 2016.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

Rollforward of RWAs Calculated under Advanced Approach Transitional Rules   
   
     VaR Value-at-Risk    

1. 
   The RWAs for each category in the table reflect both  on-  and  off-balance  sheet exposures, where appropriate.     

2. 
   Amount reflects assets not in a defined category,  non-material  portfolios of
exposures and unsettled transactions.     

3. 
   Amount reflects a reduction in the internal loss data related to litigation utilized in the operational risk capital
model.         Supplementary Leverage Ratio    
 We and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are required to publicly disclose our supplementary leverage ratios, which will become effective as a
capital standard on January 1, 2018. By January 1, 2018, we must also maintain a Tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of at least 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of at least 5%), in order
to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. In addition,

beginning in 2018, our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered well-capitalized.  
  Pro Forma Supplementary Leverage Exposure and Ratio on a Transitional Basis       

1. 
   Computed as the average daily balance of consolidated total assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter ended
December 31, 2016 and 2015.     

3. 
   Adjustments are to: (i) incorporate derivative exposures, including adding the related potential future exposure
(including for derivatives cleared for clients), grossing up cash collateral netting where qualifying criteria are not met and adding the effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection offset by qualifying purchased credit protection;
(ii) reflect the counterparty credit risk for repo-style transactions; (iii) add the credit equivalent amount for  off-balance  sheet exposures; and (iv) apply other adjustments to Tier 1 capital,
including disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets and certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions.     
 Based on our current understanding of the rules and other factors, we estimate our pro forma fully
 phased-in  supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 6.2% at December 31, 2016 and 5.8% at December 31, 2015. These estimates utilize a fully  phased-in 
Tier 1 capital numerator and a fully  phased-in  denominator of approximately $1,061.5 billion at December 31, 2016 and $1,095.6 billion at December 31, 2015, which takes into consideration
the Tier 1 capital deductions that would be applicable in 2018 after the  phase-in  period has ended.     U.S. Subsidiary
Banks  Pro Forma Supplementary Leverage Ratios on a Transitional Basis       
   The pro forma supplementary leverage exposures and pro forma supplementary leverage ratios, both on
transitional and fully  phased-in  bases, are  non-GAAP  financial measures that we consider to be useful measures for us, investors and analysts in evaluating prospective
compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. Our estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. Further, these
expectations should not be taken as projections of what our supplementary leverage ratios, earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, see  Risk
Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

G-SIB  Capital Surcharge    
 We and other U.S.  G-SIBs  are subject to a risk-based capital surcharge. A  G-SIB  must calculate its  G-SIB  capital surcharge under two methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. The first method considers the
 G-SIB s  size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the Basel Committee ( Method
1 ). The second method uses similar inputs, but replaces substitutability with the use of short-term wholesale funding ( Method 2 ) and generally results in higher surcharges than the first method. The
 G-SIB  capital surcharge must be satisfied using Common Equity Tier 1 capital and functions as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. Our current  G-SIB 
surcharge is 3%. The surcharge is being phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019, and the  phase-in  amount for 2017 is 50% of the applicable surcharge (see  Minimum Risk-Based
Capital Ratios: Transitional Provisions  herein).      Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements
     On December 15, 2016, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule for  top-tier  bank
holding companies of U.S.  G-SIBs  ( covered BHCs ), including the Parent Company, that establishes external TLAC, long-term debt ( LTD ) and clean holding company requirements. The final
rule contains various definitions and restrictions, such as requiring eligible LTD to be issued by the covered BHC and be unsecured, have a maturity of one year or more from the date of issuance and not have certain derivative-linked features,
typically associated with certain types of structured notes. Covered BHCs must comply with all requirements under the rule by January 1, 2019, which we expect to accomplish.  
 The main purpose of the Federal Reserve s minimum external TLAC and LTD requirements is to ensure that covered BHCs, including the Parent
Company, will have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of eligible LTD to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible LTD or other forms of TLAC where a single point of entry
( SPOE ) resolution strategy is used (see  Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company Resolution and Recovery Planning  in Part I, Item 1 and  Risk Factors Legal, Regulatory and
Compliance Risk  in Part I, Item 1A).    Under the final rule, a covered BHC is required to maintain minimum external TLAC equal to the
greater of 18% of total RWAs and 7.5% of its total leverage exposure (the denominator of its supplementary leverage ratio). In addition, covered BHCs must meet a separate external LTD requirement equal to the greater of 6% of total RWAs plus the

greater of the Method 1 and Method 2  G-SIB  capital surcharge applicable to the Parent Company and 4.5% of its total leverage exposure.  
 In addition, the final rule imposes TLAC buffer requirements on top of both the risk-based and leverage-exposure-based external TLAC minimum
requirements. The risk-based TLAC buffer is equal to the sum of 2.5%, the covered BHC s Method 1  G-SIB  surcharge and the countercyclical capital buffer, if any, as a percentage of total RWAs. The
leverage-exposure-based TLAC buffer is equal to 2% of the covered BHC s total leverage exposure. Failure to maintain the TLAC buffers would result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers.
   The final rule provides permanent grandfathering for debt instruments issued prior to December 31, 2016 that would be eligible LTD
but for having impermissible acceleration clauses or being governed by foreign law.    Furthermore, under the clean holding company
requirements of the final rule, a covered BHC is prohibited from incurring any external short-term debt or certain other liabilities, regardless of whether the liabilities are fully secured or otherwise senior to eligible LTD, or entering into
certain other prohibited transactions. Certain other external liabilities, including structured notes, are subject to a cap equal to 5% of the covered BHC s outstanding external TLAC amount.  
   Capital Plans and Stress Tests    
 Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding
companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ) framework.  
 We must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and the
Federal Reserve, so that the Federal Reserve may assess our systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain our internal capital adequacy.  
 The capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a
debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution ( i.e. , payments of dividends or stock repurchases) and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could impact our consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a
discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the requirements that are phased in over the planning horizon, and serve as a source of strength to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under supervisory stress
scenarios. In  

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

addition, the Federal Reserve has issued guidance setting out its heightened expectations for capital planning practices at certain large financial institutions, including us.  
 In November 2015, the Federal Reserve amended its capital plan and stress test rules to delay until 2017 the use of the supplementary leverage
ratio requirement, defer indefinitely the use of the Advanced Approach risk-based capital framework in capital planning and  company-run  stress tests, and incorporate the Tier 1 capital deductions for certain
investments in Volcker Rule covered funds into the pro forma minimum capital requirements for capital plan and stress testing purposes.  
 The capital plan rule requires that large bank holding companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital
distribution. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its
regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. A bank holding company s ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments) is also limited
if its net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan.    In addition, we must conduct semiannual  company-run  stress tests and are subject to an annual Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve.  
 On April 5, 2016, we submitted our 2016 CCAR capital plan, and summary results of the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests
were published by the Federal Reserve in June. We exceeded all stressed capital ratio minimum requirements in the Federal Reserve severely adverse scenario, and our quantitative capital results improved from our prior-year submission. In
June 2016, we received a conditional  non-objection  from the Federal Reserve to our 2016 capital plan (see  Capital Management  herein). On December 29, 2016, we resubmitted our capital plan, as
required by the Federal Reserve, to address weaknesses identified in our capital planning process.   Future capital distributions may be
restricted if these identified weaknesses are not satisfactorily addressed when the Federal Reserve reviews our resubmitted capital plan. Pursuant to the conditional  non-objection,  we are able to execute the
capital actions set forth in our 2016 capital plan, which included increasing our common stock dividend to $0.20 per share beginning in the third quarter of 2016 and executing share repurchases of $3.5 billion during the period July 1,
2016 through June 30, 2017. In addition, we submitted the results of our  mid-cycle   company-run  stress test to the

Federal Reserve on October 5, 2016, and we disclosed a summary of the results on October 31, 2016.  
 For the 2017 capital planning and stress test cycle, we are required to submit our capital plan and
 company-run  stress test results to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2017. We expect that the Federal Reserve will provide its response to our 2017 capital plan by June 30, 2017. The Federal Reserve is
expected to publish summary results of the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including us, by June 30, 2017. We are required to disclose a summary of the results of our  company-run  stress tests within 15 days of the date the Federal Reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress tests. In addition, we must submit the results of our
 mid-cycle   company-run  stress test to the Federal Reserve by October 5, 2017 and disclose a summary of the results between October 5, 2017 and November 4,
2017.    In January 2017, the Federal Reserve adopted revisions to the capital plan and stress test rules that, among other things, reduce
the  de minimis  threshold for additional capital distributions that a firm may make during a capital plan cycle without seeking the Federal Reserve s prior approval. The final rule also establishes a  blackout period  beginning
in March of each year while the Federal Reserve is conducting CCAR reviews during which firms are not permitted to submit  de minimis  exception notices or prior approval requests for additional capital distributions. The Federal Reserve is
currently considering making further changes to CCAR requirements, which may increase minimum capital requirements for the Firm.    The
Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. MSBNA and MSPBNA submitted their 2016 annual  company-run  stress tests to the OCC on April 5, 2016 and
published a summary of their stress test results on June 23, 2016. For the 2017 stress test cycle, MSBNA and MSPBNA must submit their 2017 annual  company-run  stress tests to the OCC by April 5, 2017
and publish the summary results between June 15, 2017 and July 15, 2017.      Attribution of Average Common Equity According to the Required
Capital Framework      Our required capital ( Required Capital ) estimation is based on the Required Capital framework, an
internal capital adequacy measure. Common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the Required Capital framework, as well as each business segment s relative contribution to our total Required
Capital. Required Capital is assessed for each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis.  
 The Required Capital framework is a risk-based and leverage
  use-of-capital   measure, which is compared with our regulatory capital to ensure that we maintain an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from
stress events, where applicable, at a point in time. We define the difference between our total average common equity and the sum of the average common equity amounts allocated to our business segments as Parent Company equity. We generally hold
Parent Company equity for prospective regulatory requirements, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.    Effective
January 1, 2016, the common equity estimation and attribution to the business segments are based on our pro forma fully  phased-in  regulatory capital, including supplementary leverage and stress losses
(which results in more capital being attributed to the business segments), whereas prior periods were attributed based on transitional regulatory capital provisions. Also, beginning in 2016, the amount of capital allocated to the business segments
will be set at the beginning of each year and will remain fixed throughout the year until the next annual reset. Differences between available and Required Capital will be attributed to Parent Company equity during the year. Periods prior to 2016
have not been recast under this new methodology.    The Required Capital framework is expected to evolve over time in response to changes in
the business and regulatory environment, for example, to incorporate stress testing or enhancements in modeling techniques. We will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.  
  Average Common Equity Attribution       

1. 
   Amounts are calculated on a monthly basis. Average common equity is a  non-GAAP 
financial measure that we consider to be a useful measure for us, investors and analysts to assess capital adequacy.        Regulatory
Developments       Resolution and Recovery Planning    
 Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC ) an annual resolution plan that

describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of our material financial distress or failure.  
 Our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2015 resolution plan, is an SPOE strategy. On September 30, 2016, we submitted
a status report to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in respect of certain shortcomings identified in our 2015 resolution plan. Pursuant to the status report, we indicated that the Parent Company will amend and restate its support agreement with its
material subsidiaries that is designed to ensure that such subsidiaries have sufficient capital and liquidity as and when needed throughout a resolution scenario.  
 Under the amended and restated support agreement, upon the occurrence of a resolution scenario, the Parent Company will be obligated to
contribute or loan on a subordinated basis all of its material assets, other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company and certain intercompany receivables, to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to our material subsidiaries.  
 The obligations of the Parent Company under the amended and restated support agreement will be secured on a senior basis by the assets of the
Parent Company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company). As a result, claims of our material subsidiaries against the assets of the Parent Company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company) will be effectively senior
to unsecured obligations of the Parent Company.    Our next full resolution plan submission will be on July 1, 2017. If the Federal
Reserve and the FDIC were to jointly determine that our 2017 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any deficiencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries
may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or, after a  two-year  period, we may be required to divest assets or
operations.    In September 2016, the OCC issued final guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning by national
banks and certain other institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, calculated on a rolling four-quarter average basis, including MSBNA. The guidelines were effective on January 1, 2017, and MSBNA must be in
compliance by January 1, 2018.    In May 2016, the Federal Reserve proposed a rule that would impose contractual requirements on
certain  qualified financial contracts  ( covered QFCs ) to which U.S.  G-SIBs, 

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. In August 2016, the OCC proposed a rule that would subject national banks that are subsidiaries of U.S.
 G-SIBs,  including our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, as well as certain other institutions (collectively with U.S.  G-SIBs  and their other subsidiaries,  covered
entities ), to substantively identical requirements.    Under the proposals, covered QFCs must expressly provide that transfer
restrictions and default rights against a covered entity are limited to the same extent as provided under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations. In addition, covered QFCs may not
permit the exercise of cross-default rights against a covered entity based on an affiliate s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings. If adopted as proposed, the requirements would take effect at the start of the first calendar
quarter that begins at least one year after the final rules are issued. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the proposals, which are subject to public comment and further rulemaking procedures.  
 For more information about resolution and recovery planning requirements and our activities in these areas, see
 Business Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company Resolution and Recovery Planning  in Part I, Item 1.  
   Legacy Covered Funds under the Volcker Rule    
 The Volcker Rule prohibits  banking entities,  including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain  proprietary
trading  activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and
relationships by banking entities with  covered funds,  with a number of exemptions and exclusions.    Banking entities were
required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. The Federal Reserve has extended the conformance period until July 21, 2017 for investments
in, and relationships with, covered funds that were in place before December 31, 2013, referred to as  legacy covered funds.  The Volcker Rule also permits the Federal Reserve to provide an additional transition period of up to five
years for banking entities to conform investments in certain legacy covered funds that are also illiquid funds.

On December 12, 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a policy statement with information about
how banking entities may seek this further statutory extension. Additionally, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects the illiquid funds of banking entities to generally qualify for extensions, although they may not be granted if the banking
entity has not demonstrated meaningful progress to conform or divest its illiquid funds, or has a deficient compliance program under the Volcker Rule, or if the Federal Reserve has concerns about evasion. We submitted our application for illiquid
funds extension in January 2017, covering essentially all of our approximately $1.9 billion of  non-conforming  investments in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds subject to the Volcker Rule.  
   Off-Balance  Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   
    Off-Balance  Sheet Arrangements    
 We enter into various  off-balance  sheet arrangements, including through unconsolidated special purpose
entities ( SPEs ) and lending-related financial instruments ( e.g. , guarantees and commitments), primarily in connection with the Institutional Securities and Investment Management business segments.  
 We utilize SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. For information on our securitization activities, see Note 13 to the
consolidated financial statements in Item 8.    For information on our commitments, obligations under certain guarantee arrangements and
indemnities, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. For further information on our lending commitments, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Lending
Activities  in Item 7A.      Contractual Obligations    
 In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations
include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations.

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   

1. 
   For further information on long-term borrowings and other secured financings, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.     

2. 
   Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on
applicable interest rates at December 31, 2016.     

3. 
   Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at our U.S. Bank
Subsidiaries.     

4. 
   For further information on operating leases covering premises and equipment, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8.     

5. 
   Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, computer
and telecommunications maintenance agreements, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2016 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under
legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the consolidated balance sheets.

6. 
   Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at
this time (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information).     

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Interest and Foreign Exchange Rates   
 To the extent that an increased inflation outlook results in rising interest rates or has negative impacts on the valuation of financial
instruments that exceed the impact on the value of our liabilities, it may adversely affect our financial position and profitability. Rising inflation may also result in increases in our  non-interest  expenses
that may not be readily recoverable in higher prices of services offered. Other changes in the interest rate environment and related volatility as well as expectations about the level of future interest rates could also impact our results of
operations.    A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange
rates relative to the U.S. dollar, therefore, can affect the value of  non-U.S.  dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely
monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on our financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of  non-U.S. 
dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. For information about
cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Table of Contents  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
    
   Risk Management   
  Overview     Management believes effective
risk management is vital to the success of our business activities. Accordingly, we have established an enterprise risk management ( ERM ) framework to integrate the diverse roles of risk management into a holistic enterprise structure and
to facilitate the incorporation of risk assessment into decision-making processes across the Firm. Risk is an inherent part of our businesses and activities. We have policies and procedures in place to identify, measure, monitor, advise, challenge
and control the principal risks involved in the activities of the Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, as well as at the Parent Company level. The principal risks involved in our business
activities include market (including  non-trading  interest rate risk), credit, operational, liquidity, model, compliance, strategic and reputational risk. Strategic risk is integrated into our business
planning, embedded in the evaluation of all principal risks and overseen by our Board of Directors (the  Board ).    The
cornerstone of our risk management philosophy is the pursuit of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk taking that protects our capital base and franchise. This philosophy is implemented through the ERM framework. Five key principles underlie
this philosophy: integrity, comprehensiveness, independence, accountability and transparency. To help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of our reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent
communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. The fast-paced, complex and constantly evolving nature of global financial markets

requires us to maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement.  
 Our risk appetite defines the types of risk that the Firm is willing to accept in pursuit of our strategic objectives and business plan,
taking into account the interest of clients and fiduciary duties to shareholders, as well as capital and other regulatory requirements. This risk appetite is embedded in our risk culture and linked to our short-term and long-term strategic, capital
and financial plans, as well as compensation programs. This risk appetite and the related Board-level risk limits and risk tolerance statements are reviewed and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board ( BRC ), and the Board on, at
least, an annual basis.      Risk Governance Structure    
 Risk management at the Firm requires independent Firm-level oversight, accountability of our business divisions, and effective communication
of risk matters across the Firm, to senior management and ultimately to the Board. Our risk governance structure is composed of the Board; the BRC, the Audit Committee of the Board ( BAC ), and the Operations and Technology Committee of
the Board ( BOTC  the Firm Risk Committee ( FRC  the functional risk and control committees; senior management oversight (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer
and Chief Compliance Officer); the Internal Audit Department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the business segments and operating legal entities. The ERM framework, composed of independent but complementary entities,
facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of our risk exposures and processes.  

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

1. 
   Committees include Securities Risk Committee, Wealth Management Risk Committee and Investment Management Risk
Committee     

2. 
   Committees include Capital Commitment Committee, Global Large Loan Committee, Equity Underwriting Committee,
Leveraged Finance Underwriting Committee, Municipal Capital Commitment Committee     
    
   Morgan Stanley Board of Directors.     The Board has oversight for the
ERM framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that our risks are managed in a sound manner. The Board has authorized the committees within the ERM framework to help facilitate our risk oversight responsibilities. As set forth in our
Corporate Governance Policies, the Board also oversees, and receives reports on, our financial performance, strategy and business plans as well as our practices and procedures relating to culture, values and conduct.  
  Risk Committee of the Board.     The BRC is composed of  non-management 
directors. The BRC oversees our global ERM framework; oversees the major risk exposures of the Firm, including market, credit, operational, model, liquidity, and reputational risk, against established risk measurement methodologies and the steps
management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; oversees our risk appetite statement, including risk limits and tolerances; reviews capital, liquidity and funding strategy and related guidelines and policies; reviews the contingency
funding plan and internal capital adequacy assessment process and capital plan; oversees our significant risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies; oversees the performance of the Chief Risk Officer; reviews reports from our
Strategic Transactions Committee, Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ) Committee, and Resolution and Recovery Planning ( RRP ) Committee; reviews significant reputational risk, franchise risk, new product risk,
emerging risks and regulatory matters; and reviews results of Internal Audit reviews and assessment of the risk management, liquidity and capital functions. The BRC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis, coordinates with other Board
committees with

respect to oversight of risk management and risk assessment guidelines and the entire Board attends quarterly meetings with the BRC.  
  Audit Committee of the Board.     The BAC is composed of independent directors. The BAC oversees the integrity of
our consolidated financial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and system of internal controls; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines in coordination with the Board, BRC and BOTC and reviews the major
legal and compliance risk exposures of the Firm and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; selects, determines the fees, evaluates and when appropriate, replaces the independent auditor; oversees the qualifications,
independence and performance of our independent auditor, and  pre-approves  audit and permitted  non-audit  services; oversees the performance of our Global Audit Director;
and after review, recommends to the Board the acceptance and inclusion of the annual audited consolidated financial statements in the Firm s Annual Report on Form  10-K.  The BAC reports to the entire Board
on a regular basis.     Operations and Technology Committee of the Board.       The BOTC is composed of  non-management  directors. The BOTC oversees our operations and technology strategy, including trends that may affect such strategy; reviews operations and technology budget and significant expenditures and
investments in support of such strategy; reviews operations and technology metrics; oversees risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding operations and technology risk; reviews the major operations and technology

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

risk exposures of the Firm, including information security and cybersecurity risks, and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures; and oversees our business continuity
planning. The BOTC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis.     Firm Risk Committee.     The Board has also
authorized the FRC, a management committee appointed and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Firm, including the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to oversee the
global ERM framework. The FRC s responsibilities include oversight of our risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, operational, model, liquidity, legal, compliance and
reputational risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The FRC also establishes and communicates risk tolerance, including aggregate Firm limits and tolerance, as appropriate.
The Governance Process Review Subcommittee of the FRC oversees governance and process issues on behalf of the FRC. The FRC reports to the entire Board, the BAC, the BOTC and the BRC through the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Legal Officer.     Functional Risk and Control Committees.     Functional risk and control committees comprising
the ERM framework, including the Firm Credit Risk Committee, the Operational Risk Oversight Committee, the Asset/Liability Management Committee, the Global Compliance Committee, the Technology Governance Committee and the Firm Franchise Committee,
facilitate efficient and comprehensive supervision of our risk exposures and processes. The Strategic Transactions Committee reviews large strategic transactions and principal investments for the Firm; the CCAR Committee and oversee our
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing; our RRP Committee oversees our Title I Resolution Plan and Recovery Plan; the Global Legal Entity Oversight and Governance Committee monitors the governance framework that
operates over our consolidated legal entity population; the Enterprise Regulatory Oversight Committee oversees significant regulatory and supervisory requirements and assessments; various commitment and underwriting committees are responsible for
reviewing capital, lending and underwriting commitments on behalf of us; and the Culture, Values and Conduct Committee oversees Firm-wide standards and initiatives relating to culture, values and conduct, including training and enhancements to
performance and compensation processes.    In addition, each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure
that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies, procedures, controls and

systems that are consistent with the risk framework established by the FRC; and reviews, on a periodic basis, our aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of our risk
identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls.     Chief Risk
Officer.     The Chief Risk Officer, who is independent of business units, reports to the BRC and the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Risk Officer oversees compliance with our risk limits; approves exceptions to our risk
limits; independently reviews material market, credit, liquidity, model and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Board, the BRC and the BAC, as appropriate. The Chief Risk Officer also coordinates with the
Chief Financial Officer regarding capital and liquidity management and works with the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board to help ensure that the structure and design of incentive compensation arrangements do
not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk taking.     Independent Risk Management Functions.     The independent
risk management functions (Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Model Risk and Liquidity Risk Management Departments) are independent of our business units. These functions assist senior management and the FRC in monitoring and controlling
our risk through a number of control processes. Each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. Further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk
management functions may be found below under  Market Risk,   Credit Risk,   Operational Risk,   Model Risk,  and  Liquidity Risk.   
  Support and Control Groups.     Our support and control groups include the Legal and Compliance Division, the
Finance Division, the Operations Division, the Technology and Data Division, the Human Resources Department, Strategy and Execution, and Corporate Services. Our support and control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review
the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment s market, credit and operational risk profile; liquidity risks; model risks;
sales practices; reputational, legal enforceability, compliance and regulatory risk; and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Firm and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures,
exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review.     Internal
Audit Department.     The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the BAC. The Internal Audit Department provides an independent assessment of our control environment and risk

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

management processes using a risk-based audit coverage model and audit execution methodology developed from professional auditing standards. The Internal Audit Department also reviews and tests
our compliance with internal guidelines set for risk management and risk monitoring, as well as external rules and regulations governing the industry. It effects these responsibilities through periodic reviews (with specified minimum frequency) of
our processes, activities, products or information systems; targeted reviews of specific controls and activities;  pre-implementation  or initiative reviews of new or significantly changed processes, activities,
products or information systems; and special investigations required as a result of internal factors or regulatory requests. In addition to regular reports to the BAC, the Global Audit Director also periodically reports to the BRC and BOTC on
risk-related controls.     Culture, Values and Conduct of Employees.     Employees of the Firm are accountable for
conducting themselves in accordance with our core values:  Putting Clients First, Doing the Right Thing, Leading with Exceptional Ideas and Giving Back . We are committed to building on our strong culture anchored in these core values, and
supported by our governance framework, Board and management oversight, effective risk management and controls, training and development programs, policies, procedures, and defined roles and responsibilities, including the role of the Culture, Values
and Conduct Committee. Our Code of Conduct (the  Code ) establishes standards for employee conduct that further reinforce the Firm s commitment to integrity and ethical conduct. Every new hire and every employee annually must
certify to their understanding of and adherence to the Code. The employee annual review process includes evaluation of adherence to the Code and our core values. The Global Incentive Compensation Discretion Policy sets forth standards for managers
when making annual compensation decisions and specifically provides that managers must consider whether their employees effectively managed and/or supervised risk control practices during the performance year. We also have several mutually
reinforcing processes to identify employee conduct that may have an impact on employment status, current-year compensation and/or prior-year compensation. Our clawback and cancellation provisions, which permit recovery of deferred incentive
compensation, apply to a broad scope of employee conduct, including any act or omission that constitutes a breach of obligation to the Firm (including failure to comply with internal compliance, ethics or risk management standards, and failure or
refusal to perform duties satisfactorily, including supervisory and management duties), causes a restatement of our consolidated financial results, constitutes a violation of our global risk management principles, policies and standards, or causes a
loss of revenues associated with a position on which the employee was paid and the employee operated outside of internal control policies.

Risk Management Process    
 The following is a discussion of our risk management policies and procedures for our principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is discussed
in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Item 7). The discussion focuses on our securities activities (primarily our institutional trading
activities) and corporate lending and related activities. We believe that these activities generate a substantial portion of our principal risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of our risk exposure generated by our statistical analyses
are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which we operate and certain other
factors described below.      Risk Limits Framework    
 Risk limits and quantitative metrics provide the basis for monitoring risk-taking activity and avoiding outsized risk-taking. Our risk-taking
capacity is sized through the Firm s capital planning process where losses are estimated under the Firm s Bank Holding Company Severely Adverse stress testing scenario. We also maintain a comprehensive suite of risk limits and quantitative
metrics to support and implement our risk appetite statement. Our risk limits support linkages between the overall risk appetite, which is reviewed by the Board, and more granular risk-taking decisions and activities.  
 Risk limits, once established, are reviewed and updated on at least an annual basis, with more frequent updates as necessary. Board-level risk
limits address the most important Firm-wide aggregations of risk, including, but not limited to, stressed market, credit and liquidity risks. Additional risk limits approved by the FRC address more specific types of risk and are bound by the
higher-level Board risk limits.     Market Risk   
 Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price
volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, we incur market risk as a result of trading, investing
and client facilitation activities, principally within the Institutional Securities business segment where the substantial majority of our   Value-at-Risk  
( VaR ) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, we incur trading-related market risk within the Wealth Management business segment. The Investment Management business segment primarily incurs
 non-trading  market risk from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

vehicles. Market risk includes  non-trading  interest rate risk.  Non-trading  interest rate risk in the banking book
(amounts classified for regulatory capital purposes under the banking book regime) refers to the exposure that a change in interest rates will result in prospective earnings changes for assets and liabilities in the banking book.  
 Sound market risk management is an integral part of our culture. The various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring
that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. The Market Risk Department is responsible for ensuring
transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Market Risk Department monitors our risk against limits
on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains our VaR and scenario analysis systems. These limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is also
monitored through various measures: by use of statistics (including VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of
specified changes in market factors, and scenario analyses conducted by the Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Market Risk
Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC and the Board.    The Chief Risk Officer, among
other things, monitors market risk through the Market Risk Department, which reports to the Chief Risk Officer and is independent of the business units, and has close interactions with senior management and the risk management control groups in the
business units. The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the FRC, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Firm, and regularly reports on market risk matters to this committee, as well as to the BRC
and the Board.      Sales and Trading and Related Activities    
  Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management.     During 2016, we had exposures to a wide range of
interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which we conduct our trading activities.  
 We are exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of our market-making activities and other trading in

interest rate-sensitive financial instruments ( e.g ., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the
yield curve and credit spreads). The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which we are active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and
asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).    We are exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of
making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in  non-public  entities). Positions in  non-public  entities may
include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed
equities.    We are exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and
foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding  non-U.S.  dollar-denominated financial instruments.  
 We are exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities in commodity products related primarily
to electricity, natural gas, oil and precious metals. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production and
transportation; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.    We manage
our trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial
instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g ., futures, forwards, swaps and options). Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific
characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. We manage the market risk associated with our trading activities on a Firm-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level
and on an individual product basis. We manage and monitor our market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that we believe is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects our aggregate
risk tolerance as established by our senior management.  

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Firm across all divisions worldwide.
Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in
accordance with policies set by our senior management.     VaR.       We use the statistical technique known
as VaR as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of our trading portfolios. The Market Risk Department calculates and distributes daily  VaR-based  risk measures to
various levels of management.     VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations.       We estimate VaR using a
model based on volatility-adjusted historical simulation for general market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. The model constructs a distribution of hypothetical
daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on the following: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk
factor changes. Our VaR model uses four years of historical data with a volatility adjustment to reflect current market conditions. VaR for risk management purposes ( Management VaR ) is computed at a 95% level of confidence over a  one-day  time horizon, which is a useful indicator of possible trading losses resulting from adverse daily market moves. The  95%/one-day  VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss
in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.  
 Our VaR model generally takes into account linear and  non-linear  exposures to equity and commodity
price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. The model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and  non-linear  exposures to
implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. The VaR model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks ( e.g., 
corporate debt and related credit derivatives).    We use VaR as one of a range of risk management tools. Among their benefits, VaR models
permit estimation of a portfolio s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. One key element of the VaR model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or
hedging activities. However, VaR has various limitations, which include, but are not

limited to: use of historical changes in market risk factors, which may not be accurate predictors of future market conditions and may not fully incorporate the risk of extreme market events that
are outsized relative to observed historical market behavior or reflect the historical distribution of results beyond the 95% confidence interval; and reporting of losses in a single day, which does not reflect the risk of positions that cannot be
liquidated or hedged in one day. A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions is not included in VaR. The modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could
produce significantly different results from those produced using more precise measures. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as
periods of extreme illiquidity. We are aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, use VaR as only one component in our risk management oversight process. This process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive
risk monitoring, analysis and control at the trading desk, division and Firm levels.    Our VaR model evolves over time in response to
changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. We are committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks
associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. As part of our regular process improvements, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model s ability to more accurately estimate risks to
specific asset classes or industry sectors.    Since the reported VaR statistics are estimates based on historical data, VaR should not be
viewed as predictive of our future revenues or financial performance or of our ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that our actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such
losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a  95%/one-day  VaR. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses that, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.
   VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the firms  portfolios, modeling assumptions and
methodologies. These differences can result in materially different VaR estimates across firms for similar portfolios. The impact of such differences varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is
updated and the confidence level. As a result, VaR statistics are more useful when interpreted as indicators of trends in a firm s risk profile rather than as an absolute measure of risk to be compared across firms.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

We utilize the same VaR model for risk management purposes, as well as for regulatory capital
calculations. Our VaR model has been approved by our regulators for use in regulatory capital calculations.    The portfolio of positions
used for Management VaR differs from that used for regulatory capital requirements ( Regulatory VaR ), as Management VaR contains certain positions that are excluded from Regulatory VaR. Examples include counterparty credit valuation
adjustment ( CVA ) and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges.    The following
table presents the Management VaR for the Trading portfolio, on a  period-end,  annual average, and annual high and low basis. To further enhance the transparency of the traded market risk, the Credit Portfolio
VaR has been disclosed as a separate category from the Primary Risk Categories. The Credit Portfolio includes counterparty CVA and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges.  
  Trading Risks   
   95%/One-Day  Management VaR       
   N/A Not Applicable  

1. 
   Diversification benefit equals the difference between the total Management VaR and the sum of the component VaRs. This
benefit arises because the simulated  one-day  losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component.

2. 
   The high and low VaR values for the total Management VaR and each of the component VaRs might have occurred on different
days during the year, and therefore, the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure.

The average total Management VaR for 2016 was $43 million compared with $50 million
for 2015. The average Management VaR for the Primary Risk Categories for 2016 was $36 million compared with $47 million in 2015. The noted decreases were driven by an overall reduction in risk exposures across the Sales and Trading
businesses.     Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for 2016.       One method of evaluating the
reasonableness of our VaR model as a measure of our potential volatility of net revenues is to compare VaR with actual trading revenues. Assuming no intraday trading, for a  95%/one-day  VaR, the expected number
of times that trading losses should exceed VaR during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the VaR model would be questioned. We evaluate the reasonableness of our VaR
model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results for the Firm, as well as individual business units. For days where losses exceed the VaR statistic, we examine the drivers of trading
losses to evaluate the VaR model s accuracy relative to realized trading results.    The distribution of VaR Statistics and Net
Revenues is presented in the following histograms for the Total Trading populations.     Total
Trading.       As shown in the  95%/One-Day  Management VaR table on the preceding page, the average  95%/one-day  total Management VaR for 2016
was $43 million. The following histogram presents the distribution of the daily  95%/one-day  total Management VaR for 2016, which was in a range between $30 million and $60 million for
approximately 99% of trading days during the year.        

The following histogram shows the distribution for 2016 of daily net trading revenues, including profits
and losses from Interest rate and credit spread, Equity price, Foreign exchange rate, Commodity price, and Credit Portfolio positions and intraday trading activities, for our Trading businesses. Daily net trading revenues also include intraday
trading activities but exclude certain items not captured in the VaR model, such as fees, commissions and net interest income. Daily net trading revenues

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

differ from the definition of revenues required for Regulatory VaR backtesting, which further excludes intraday trading. During 2016, we experienced net trading losses on 18 days, of which no day
was in excess of the  95%/one-day  Total Management VaR.          

Non-Trading  Risks    
 We believe that sensitivity analysis is an appropriate representation of our  non-trading  risks.
Reflected below is this analysis covering substantially all of the  non-trading  risk in our portfolio.  
  Counterparty Exposure Related to Our Own Credit Spread.       The credit spread risk sensitivity of the
counterparty exposure related to our own credit spread corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $6 million for each 1 basis point widening in our credit spread level at both December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015.  
  Funding Liabilities.       The credit spread risk sensitivity of our   mark-to-market   funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $17 million and $11 million for each 1 basis point widening in our credit spread level at December 31,
2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.     Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity.       The following table
presents an analysis of selected instantaneous upward and downward parallel interest rate shocks on net interest income over the next 12 months for our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. These shocks are applied to our
 12-month  forecast for our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, which incorporates market expectations of interest rates and our forecasted business activity, including our deposit deployment strategy and asset-liability
management hedges.    During the fourth quarter of 2016, we changed the criteria used to determine the pricing for our deposit liabilities
to client cash balances from client assets under management. As a result of the change, the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries balance sheet is expected to have greater sensitivity to higher rates than in prior periods.

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  Net Interest Income Sensitivity Analysis   
   
   At December 31, 2016, the upward instantaneous interest rate shocks result in a positive impact to our
U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  projected net interest income over the following 12 months.    We do not manage to any single rate scenario but
rather manage net interest income in our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to optimize across a range of possible outcomes. The sensitivity analysis assumes that we take no action in response to these scenarios, assumes there are no changes in other
macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates, and includes subjective assumptions regarding customer and market re-pricing behavior and other factors.  
  Investments .    We have exposure to public and private companies through direct investments, as well as through
funds that invest in these assets. These investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, a portion of which are for business facilitation purposes. The market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating
the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% decline in investment values and related impact on performance fees.     Investments Sensitivity,
Including Related Performance Fees       
    Equity Market Sensitivity.     In the Wealth Management and Investment Management
business segments, certain  fee-based  revenue streams are driven by the value of clients  equity holdings. The overall level of revenues for these streams also depends on multiple additional factors that
include, but are not limited to, the level and duration of the equity market decline, price volatility, the geographic and industry mix of client assets, the rate and magnitude of client investments and redemptions, and the impact of such market
decline and price volatility on client behavior. Therefore, overall revenues do not correlate completely with changes in the equity markets.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Credit Risk   
 Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. We
primarily incur credit risk exposure to institutions and individuals through our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments.  
 We may incur credit risk in our Institutional Securities business segment through a variety of activities, including, but not limited to, the
following:      

extending credit to clients through various lending commitments;     

entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments
to us;         

providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at
times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount;         

posting margin and/or collateral to clearinghouses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and
other financial counterparties;         

placing funds on deposit at other financial institutions to support our clearing and settlement obligations;
and         

investing or trading in securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on
realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.       We incur credit risk in our Wealth Management
business segment, primarily through lending to individuals and entities, including, but not limited to, the following:      

margin loans collateralized by securities;     

securities-based lending and other forms of secured loans, including tailored lending, to high net worth
clients; and         

single-family residential mortgage loans in conforming,  non-conforming 
or home equity lines of credit ( HELOC ) form, primarily to existing Wealth Management clients.         Monitoring and Control
     In order to help protect us from losses, the Credit Risk Management Department establishes Firm-wide practices to evaluate,
monitor and control credit risk exposure at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. The Credit Risk Management Department approves extensions of credit, evaluates the creditworthiness of the counterparties and borrowers on a regular basis,
and ensures that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. The evaluation of counterparties and

borrowers includes an assessment of the probability that an obligor will default on its financial obligations and any losses that may occur when an obligor defaults. In addition, credit risk
exposure is actively managed by credit professionals and committees within the Credit Risk Management Department and through various risk committees, whose membership includes individuals from the Credit Risk Management Department. A comprehensive
and global Credit Limits Framework is utilized to manage credit risk levels across the Firm. The Credit Limits Framework is calibrated within our risk tolerance and includes single-name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry
and product type.    The Credit Risk Management Department ensures transparency of material credit risks, compliance with established limits
and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. The Credit Risk Management Department also works closely with the Market Risk Department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures and to perform stress tests to
identify, analyze and control credit risk concentrations arising in the lending and trading activities. The stress tests shock market factors ( e.g. , interest rates, commodity prices, credit spreads), risk parameters  (e.g. , default
probabilities and loss given default), recovery rates and expected losses in order to assess the impact of stresses on exposures, profit and loss, and our capital position. Stress and scenario tests are conducted in accordance with our established
policies and procedures.      Credit Evaluation   
 The evaluation of corporate and institutional counterparties and borrowers includes assigning obligor credit ratings, which reflect an
assessment of an obligor s probability of default and loss given default. Credit evaluations typically involve the assessment of financial statements; leverage; liquidity; capital strength; asset composition and quality; market capitalization;
access to capital markets; adequacy of collateral, if applicable; and in the case of certain loans, cash flow projections and debt service requirements. The Credit Risk Management Department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry
dynamics, management and other factors that could affect the obligor s risk profile. Additionally, the Credit Risk Management Department evaluates the relative position of our exposure in the borrower s capital structure and relative
recovery prospects, as well as other structural elements of the particular transaction.    The evaluation of consumer borrowers is tailored
to the specific type of lending. Margin and securities-based loans are evaluated based on factors that include, but are not limited to, the amount of the loan, the degree of leverage and the quality, diversification, price volatility and liquidity
of the collateral. The underwriting of residential real estate loans includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor s income,

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

net worth, liquidity, collateral,   loan-to-value   ratio and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring
for individual loans is performed at the portfolio level, and collateral values are monitored on an ongoing basis.    Credit risk metrics
assigned to our borrowers during the evaluation process are incorporated into the Credit Risk Management Department s maintenance of the allowance for loan losses for the loans held for the investment portfolio. Such allowance serves as a
reserve for probable inherent losses, as well as probable losses related to loans identified for impairment. For more information on the allowance for loan losses, see Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  
   Risk Mitigation      We may seek to
mitigate credit risk from our lending and trading activities in multiple ways, including collateral provisions, guarantees and hedges. At the transaction level, we seek to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor,
financial covenants, seniority and collateral. We actively hedge our lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single-name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. Additionally, we may sell, assign
or syndicate loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan markets. In connection with our derivatives trading activities, we generally enter into master netting agreements and collateral
arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide us with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master agreement in the event of a counterparty
default. A collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about our
collateralized transactions.      Lending Activities    
 We provide loans and lending commitments to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth
individuals. In addition, we purchase loans in the secondary market. In the consolidated balance sheets, these loans and lending commitments are carried at either fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings; held for investment, which
are recorded at amortized cost; or held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Loans held for investment and loans held for sale are classified in Loans, and loans held at fair value are classified in Trading assets in the
consolidated balance sheets. See Notes 3, 7 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.

Loan and Lending Commitment Portfolio by Business Segment   

1. 
   Loans in Investment Management are entered into in conjunction with certain investment advisory activities.

2. 
   Amounts exclude $24.4 billion and $25.3 billion related to margin loans and $4.7 billion and
$4.9 billion related to employee loans at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.     

3. 
   Lending commitments represent the notional amount of legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients for all
lending transactions. Since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused or may not be utilized to full capacity, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.     

4. 
   For syndications led by us, the lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts
agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that we participate in and do not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that we expect will be allocated
from the lead, syndicate bank. Due to the nature of our obligations under the commitments, these amounts include certain commitments participated to third parties.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Our credit exposure from our loans and lending commitments is measured in accordance with our
internal risk management standards. Risk factors considered in determining the aggregate allowance for loan and commitment losses include the borrower s financial strength, seniority of the loan, collateral type, volatility of collateral value,
debt cushion,   loan-to-value   ratio, debt service ratio, covenants and counterparty type. Qualitative and environmental factors such as economic and business conditions,
nature and volume of the portfolio and lending terms, and volume and severity of past due loans may also be considered.    At
December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the allowance for loan losses related to loans that were accounted for as held for investment was $274 million and $225 million, respectively, and the allowance for commitment losses
related to lending commitments that were accounted for as held for investment was $190 million and $185 million, respectively. The aggregate allowance for loan and commitment losses increased over the year ended December 31, 2016
primarily due to the energy sector. See  Institutional Securities Lending Exposures Related to the Energy Industry  herein and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  
  Institutional Securities Lending Activities   .          In connection with certain of our
Institutional Securities business segment activities, we provide loans and lending commitments to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients. These activities include corporate lending, commercial and residential mortgage lending,
asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to equities and commodities customers, and loans to municipalities. These loans and lending commitments may have varying terms; may be senior or
subordinated; may be secured or unsecured; are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower; and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by us.  
 We also participate in securitization activities whereby we extend short-term or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending
commitments that are secured by the assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about our securitization activities.  
 Institutional Securities loans and lending commitments are mainly related to relationship-based and event-driven lending to select corporate
clients. Relationship-based loans and lending commitments are used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity purposes by our investment banking clients and typically consist of revolving lines of credit, letter of credit
facilities and term loans. In

connection with the relationship-based lending activities, we had hedges (which included single-name, sector and index hedges) with a notional amount of $20.2 billion and $12.0 billion
at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Event-driven loans and lending commitments are associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition, recapitalization and project finance
activities. Event-driven loans and lending commitments typically consist of revolving lines of credit, term loans and bridge loans.     Institutional Securities
Loans and Lending Commitments by Credit Rating 1        

1. 
   Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department.     

2. 
   Unrated loans and lending commitments are primarily trading positions that are measured at fair value and risk managed
as a component of Market Risk. For a further discussion of our Market Risk, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  herein.     
 At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $15.3 billion and
$15.8 billion, respectively, the aggregate amount of  non-investment  grade loans was $24.7 billion and $26.9 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of unrated loans was $2.5 billion
and $4.2 billion, respectively.    At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, approximately 99% of the Institutional
Securities business segment loans held for investment were current, while approximately 1% were on nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Event-Driven Loans and Lending Commitments   
   
    Maturity Profile of Event-Driven Loans and Lending Commitments   
   
    Institutional Securities Credit Exposure from Loans and Lending Commitments by Industry   

1. 
   Industry categories are based on the Global Industry Classification
Standard   .     

2. 
   Includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses, and diversified
financial services.        Institutional Securities Lending Exposures Related to the Energy
Industry.     At December 31, 2016, Institutional Securities  loans and lending commitments related to the energy industry were $11.8 billion, of which approximately

68% are accounted for as held for investment and 32% are accounted for as either held for sale or at fair value. Additionally, approximately 52% of the total energy industry loans and lending
commitments were to investment grade counterparties. At December 31, 2016, the energy industry portfolio included $1.3 billion in loans and $2.1 billion in lending commitments to Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
( E P ) companies.    The E P loans were to  non-investment  grade counterparties,
which are generally subject to periodic borrowing base reassessments based on the value of the underlying oil and gas reserves pledged as collateral. In limited situations, we may extend the period related to borrowing base reassessments typically
in conjunction with taking certain risk mitigating actions with the borrower. Approximately 54% of the E P lending commitments were to investment grade counterparties. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we increased the allowance for
loan and commitment losses on held for investment energy exposures and incurred   mark-to-market   losses related to energy loans and lending commitments. See  Credit
Risk Lending Activities  herein for further information. To the extent commodities prices, or oil prices, remain at  year-end  levels, or deteriorate further, we may incur additional lending losses.
    Institutional Securities Margin Lending.     In addition to the activities noted above, Institutional
Securities provides margin lending, which allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the amounts related to margin lending were $11.9 billion and
$10.6 billion, respectively, which were classified within Customer and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets.  
  Wealth Management Lending Activities.     The principal Wealth Management lending activities include
securities-based lending and residential real estate loans.    Securities-based lending provided to our retail clients is primarily
conducted through our Portfolio Loan Account ( PLA ) and Liquidity Access Line ( LAL ) platforms, which had an outstanding loan balance of $29.7 billion and $24.9 billion at December 31, 2016 and December 31,
2015, respectively. These loans allow the client to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any purpose other than purchasing securities. We establish approved credit lines against qualifying securities and
monitor limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, require customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. These credit lines are primarily uncommitted loan facilities, as we reserve the right
to not make any advances, or may terminate these credit lines at any time. Factors considered in the review of these loans include, but are not limited to, the loan amount, the client s credit profile, the degree of leverage, collateral
diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the collateral. 

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Residential real estate loans consist of first and second lien mortgages, including HELOC loans.
Our underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis utilizing industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g. , Fair Isaac Corporation
( FICO ) scores), debt ratios and assets of the borrower.   Loan-to-value   ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations,
and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. The vast majority of mortgage and HELOC loans are held for investment in the Wealth Management business segment s loan portfolio.  
 For the year ended December 31, 2016, loans and lending commitments associated with the Wealth Management business segment lending activities
increased by approximately 24%, mainly due to growth in LAL and residential real estate loans.     Wealth Management Lending Activities by Remaining Contractual
Maturity       
     
   At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, approximately 99.9% of the Wealth Management business segment
loans held for investment were current, while approximately 0.1% were on nonaccrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt.  
 The Wealth Management business segment also provides margin lending to clients and had an outstanding balance of

$12.5 billion and $14.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, which were classified within Customer and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets.  
 In addition, the Wealth Management business segment has employee loans of $4.7 billion and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2016 and December
31, 2015, respectively, that are granted in conjunction with programs established by us to retain and recruit certain employees. These loans are recorded in Customer and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets. These loans are full
recourse, generally require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from 1 to 12 years. We establish an allowance for loan amounts we do not consider recoverable, which is recorded in Compensation and benefits expense.  
  Credit Exposure Derivatives     We
incur credit risk as a dealer in OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. In connection with our OTC derivative activities, we
generally enter into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide us with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under
the same master netting agreement in the event of counterparty default. We manage our trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities
consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). For credit exposure information on our OTC derivative
products, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.     Credit Derivatives .    A credit
derivative is a contract between a seller and buyer of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on one or more debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. The buyer typically pays a periodic premium over the life of the
contract and is protected for the period. If a credit event occurs, the seller is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. Credit events, as defined in the contract, may be one or more of the
following defined events: bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation, payment moratorium and restructurings.  
 We trade in a variety of credit derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities.
In transactions referencing a portfolio of entities or securities, protection may be limited to a tranche of

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

exposure or a single name within the portfolio. We are an active market maker in the credit derivatives markets. As a market maker, we work to earn a
 bid-offer  spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. Further, we use credit derivatives to manage our exposure to residential and commercial
mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures. The effectiveness of our credit default swap ( CDS ) protection as a hedge of our exposures may vary depending upon a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS.  
 We actively monitor our counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. A majority of our counterparties are composed of banks,
broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions. Contracts with these counterparties may include provisions related to counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in the counterparty posting additional collateral to us. As with all
derivative contracts, we consider counterparty credit risk in the valuation of our positions and recognize credit valuation adjustments as appropriate within Trading revenues in the consolidated income statements.  
  Credit Derivative Portfolio by Counterparty Type       

1. 
   Our CDSs are classified in either Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 4% and 3%,
respectively, of receivable fair values and 7% and 6%, respectively, of payable fair values represented Level 3 amounts at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).
      The fair values shown in the previous table are before the application of contractual netting or collateral. For
additional credit exposure information on our credit derivative portfolio, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

OTC Derivative Products at Fair Value, Net of Collateral, by Industry   

1. 
   Industry categories are based on the Global Industry Classification Standard   .     

2. 
   Amounts include mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses, and
diversified financial services.     

3. 
   For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements in Item 8.        Country Risk Exposure  
 Country risk exposure is the risk that events in, or that affect, a foreign country (any country other than the U.S.) might adversely affect
us. We actively manage country risk exposure through a comprehensive risk management framework that combines credit and market fundamentals and allows us to effectively identify, monitor and limit country risk. Country risk exposure before and
after hedging is monitored and managed.    Our obligor credit evaluation process may also identify indirect exposures whereby an obligor has
vulnerability or exposure to another country or jurisdiction. Examples of indirect exposures include mutual funds that invest in a single country, offshore companies whose assets reside in another country to that of the offshore jurisdiction and
finance company subsidiaries of corporations. Indirect exposures identified through the credit evaluation process may result in a reclassification of country risk.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

We conduct periodic stress testing that seeks to measure the impact on our credit and market
exposures of shocks stemming from negative economic or political scenarios. When deemed appropriate by our risk managers, the stress test scenarios include possible contagion effects. Second order risks such as the impact for core European banks of
their peripheral exposures may also be considered. This analysis, and results of the stress tests, may result in the amendment of limits or exposure mitigation.  
 In addition to our country risk exposure, we disclose our cross-border risk exposure in  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)  in Item 8. It is based on the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border information and represents the amounts that we may not be
able to obtain from a foreign country due to country-specific events, including unfavorable economic and political conditions, economic and social instability, and changes in government policies.  
 There can be substantial differences between our country risk exposure and cross-border risk exposure. For instance, unlike the cross-border
risk exposure, our country risk exposure includes the effect of certain risk mitigants. In addition, the basis for determining the domicile of the country risk exposure is different from the basis for determining the cross-border risk exposure.
Cross-border risk exposure is reported based on the country of jurisdiction for the obligor or guarantor. For country risk exposure, we consider factors in

addition to that of country of jurisdiction, including physical location of operations or assets, location and source of cash flows/revenues and location of collateral (if applicable) in order to
determine the basis for country risk exposure. Furthermore, cross-border risk exposure incorporates CDS only where protection is purchased, while country risk exposure incorporates CDS where protection is purchased or sold.  
 Our sovereign exposures consist of financial instruments entered into with sovereign and local governments. Our non-sovereign exposures
consist of exposures to primarily corporations and financial institutions. The following table shows our 10 largest non-U.S. country risk net exposures at December 31, 2016. Index credit derivatives are included in the country risk exposure table.
Each reference entity within an index is allocated to that reference entity s country of risk. Index exposures are allocated to the underlying reference entities in proportion to the notional weighting of each reference entity in the index,
adjusted for any fair value receivable/payable for that reference entity. Where credit risk crosses multiple jurisdictions, for example, a CDS purchased from an issuer in a specific country that references bonds issued by an entity in a different
country, the fair value of the CDS is reflected in the Net Counterparty Exposure column based on the country of the CDS issuer. Further, the notional amount of the CDS adjusted for the fair value of the receivable/payable is reflected in the Net
Inventory column based on the country of the underlying reference entity.  

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Top Ten Country Exposures at December 31, 2016   

1. 
   Net inventory represents exposure to both long and short single-name and index positions ( i.e. , bonds and
equities at fair value and CDS based on a notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). As a market maker, we may transact in these CDS positions to facilitate client trading. At December 31, 2016,
gross purchased protection, gross written protection, and net exposures related to single-name and index credit derivatives for those countries were $(85.3) billion, $83.7 billion and $(1.6) billion, respectively. For a further description of
the triggers for purchased credit protection and whether those triggers may limit the effectiveness of our hedges, see  Credit Exposure Derivatives  herein.     

2. 
   Net counterparty exposure ( i.e ., repurchase transactions, securities lending and OTC derivatives) takes into
consideration legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral.     

3. 
   At December 31, 2016, the benefit of collateral received against counterparty credit exposure was
$9.5 billion in the U.K., with 96% of collateral consisting of cash and government obligations of the U.K., U.S. and France, and $6.6 billion in Japan with nearly all collateral consisting of cash and government obligations of Japan. The
benefit of collateral received against counterparty credit exposure in the other countries totaled approximately $10.6 billion, with collateral primarily consisting of cash and government obligations of the U.S. These amounts do not include
collateral received on secured financing transactions.     

4. 
   Amounts represent CDS hedges (purchased and sold) on net counterparty exposure and lending executed by trading desks
responsible for hedging counterparty and lending credit risk exposures for us. Amounts are based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable.     

5. 
   In addition, at December 31, 2016, we had exposure to these countries for overnight deposits with banks of
approximately $10.2 billion.     

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Country Risk Exposures Related to the United Kingdom.     At
December 31, 2016, our country risk exposures in the U.K. included net exposures of $14,702 million (shown in the previous table) and overnight deposits of $5,514 million. The $16,168 million (shown in the previous table) of
exposures to  non-sovereigns  were diversified across both names and sectors. Of this exposure, $14,161 million is to investment grade counterparties, with the largest single component ($4,408 million) to
exchanges and clearinghouses.    Country Risk Exposures Related to Brazil .    At December 31, 2016, our
country risk exposures in Brazil included net exposures of $5,215 million (shown in the previous table). Our sovereign net exposures in Brazil were principally in the form of local currency government bonds held onshore to support client
activity. The $582 million (shown in the previous table) of exposures to  non-sovereigns  were diversified across both names and sectors.  
  Country Risk Exposures Related to China.             At December 31, 2016, our country risk
exposures in China included net exposures of $2,075 million (shown in the previous table) and overnight deposits with international banks of $159 million. The $2,269 million (shown in the previous table) of exposures to  non-sovereigns  were diversified across both names and sectors and were primarily concentrated in high-quality positions with negligible direct exposure to onshore equities. 
  Operational Risk     Operational risk
refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical
assets). We may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g ., sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , information technology and trade
processing). On March 4, 2016, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ( BCBS ) updated its proposal for calculating operational risk regulatory capital. Under the proposal, which would eliminate the use of an internal model-based
approach, required levels of operational risk regulatory capital would generally be determined under a standardized approach based primarily on a financial statement-based measure of operational risk exposure and adjustments based on the particular
institution s historic operational loss record. The revised proposal will be subject to further rulemaking procedures and its timing has not been specified.

We have established an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and control risk
across the Firm. Effective operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of operational risk incidents and mitigating legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the
Firm and to respond to the changing regulatory and business environment. We have implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, to assess business environment and
internal control factors and to perform scenario analysis. The collected data elements are incorporated in the operational risk capital model. The model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. Internal loss data and scenario analysis
results are direct inputs to the capital model, while external operational incidents, business environment and internal control factors are evaluated as part of the scenario analysis process.  
 In addition, we employ a variety of risk processes and mitigants to manage our operational risk exposures. These include a strong governance
framework, a comprehensive risk management program and insurance. Operational risks and associated risk exposures are assessed relative to the risk tolerance established by the Board and are prioritized accordingly. The breadth and range of
operational risk are such that the types of mitigating activities are wide-ranging. Examples of activities include enhancing defenses against cyberattacks; use of legal agreements and contracts to transfer and/or limit operational risk
exposures; due diligence; implementation of enhanced policies and procedures; technology change management controls; exception management processing controls; and segregation of duties. 
 Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers
therein. The business managers maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. Each of the business segments has a designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator
regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to our senior management within each business. Each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with our senior
management. Oversight of operational risk is provided by the Operational Risk Oversight Committee, legal entity risk committees, regional risk committees and senior management. In the event of a merger; joint venture; divestiture; reorganization; or
creation of a new legal entity, a new product or a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes or controls are implemented.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

The Operational Risk Department is independent of the divisions and reports to the Chief Risk
Officer. The Operational Risk Department provides oversight of operational risk management and independently assesses, measures and monitors operational risk. The Operational Risk Department works with the divisions and control groups to help ensure
a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the Firm. The Operational Risk Department scope includes oversight of the technology and data risk management program ( e.g. ,
cybersecurity), fraud risk management and prevention program, and supplier risk management (vendor risk oversight and assessment) program. Furthermore, the Operational Risk Department supports the collection and reporting of operational risk
incidents and the execution of operational risk assessments; provides the infrastructure needed for risk measurement and risk management; and ensures ongoing validation and verification of our advanced measurement approach for operational risk
capital.    Business Continuity Management is responsible for identifying key risks and threats to our resiliency and planning to ensure
that a recovery strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a
Firm-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of our Business Continuity Management Program include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery;
and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing.    We maintain an information security program that coordinates
the management of information security risks and is designed to address regulatory requirements. Information security policies are designed to protect our information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. These policies
cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, internet and electronic communications, remote access, mobile banking products, and portable devices. We have also established policies,
procedures and technologies to protect our computers and other assets from unauthorized access.    In connection with our ongoing
operations, we utilize the services of external vendors, which we anticipate will continue and may increase in the future. These services include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and other professional services. We
manage our exposures to these services through a variety of means such as the performance of due diligence, consideration of operational risk, implementation of service level and other
contrac- 

tual agreements, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors  performance. We maintain a supplier risk management program with policies, procedures, organization, governance and supporting
technology that satisfies regulatory requirements. The program is designed to ensure that adequate risk management controls over the services exist, including, but not limited to, information security, operational failure, financial stability,
disaster recoverability, reputational risk, safeguards against corruption and termination.     Model Risk   
 Model risk refers to the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs. Model risk can lead to
financial loss, poor business and strategic decision making, or damage to a Firm s reputation. The risk inherent in a model is a function of the materiality, complexity and uncertainty around inputs and assumptions. Model risk is generated from
the use of models impacting financial statements, regulatory filings, capital adequacy assessments and the formulation of strategy.    Sound
model risk management is an integral part of our Risk Management Framework. Model Risk Management is a distinct department in Risk Management responsible for the independent oversight of model risk. It is independent of the business units and
reports to the Chief Risk Officer.    The Model Risk Management Department establishes a model risk tolerance in line with our risk
appetite. The tolerance is based on an assessment of the materiality of the risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to errors in design, implementation, and/or inappropriate use of models. The tolerance is monitored through model-specific
and aggregate business-level assessments, which are based upon qualitative and quantitative factors.    A guiding principle for managing
model risk is the  effective challenge  of models. The effective challenge of models is represented by the critical analysis by objective, informed parties who can identify model limitations and assumptions and drive appropriate changes.
The Model Risk Management Department provides effective challenge of models, independently validates and approves models for use, annually recertifies models, reports identified model validation limitations to key stakeholders, tracks remediation
plans for model validation limitations, and reports on model risk metrics. The department also develops controls to support a complete and accurate Firm-wide model inventory. The Model Risk Management Department reports on our model risk relative to
risk tolerance and presents these reports to the Model Oversight Committee, the FRC, and the Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Risk Officer also provides quarterly updates to the BRC on model risk metrics.

Table of Contents  

Risk Disclosures   

Liquidity Risk   
 Liquidity risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or
difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity risk also encompasses our ability (or perceived ability) to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as
a going concern. Liquidity risk also encompasses the associated funding risks triggered by the market or idiosyncratic stress events that may negatively affect our liquidity and may impact our ability to raise new funding. Generally, we incur
liquidity and funding risk as a result of our trading, lending, investing and client facilitation activities.    Our Liquidity Risk
Management Framework is critical to helping ensure that we maintain sufficient liquidity reserves and durable funding sources to meet our daily obligations and to withstand unanticipated stress events. The Liquidity Risk Department is a distinct
area in Risk Management responsible for the oversight and monitoring of liquidity risk. The Liquidity Risk Department is independent of the business units and reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The Liquidity Risk Department ensures transparency of
material liquidity and funding risks, compliance with established risk limits and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Liquidity Risk Department establishes limits in line with
our risk appetite, identifies and analyzes emerging liquidity and funding risks to ensure such risks are appropriately mitigated, monitors and reports risk exposures against metrics and limits, and reviews the methodologies and assumptions
underpinning our Liquidity Stress Tests to ensure sufficient liquidity and funding under a range of adverse scenarios. The liquidity and funding risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Liquidity Risk Department
that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC and the Board, as appropriate.

The Treasury Department and applicable business units have primary responsibility for
evaluating, monitoring and controlling the liquidity and funding risks arising from our business activities, and for maintaining processes and controls to manage the key risks inherent in their respective areas. The Liquidity Risk Department
coordinates with the Treasury Department and these business units to help ensure a consistent and comprehensive framework for managing liquidity and funding risk across the Firm. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7.     Legal and Compliance Risk   
 Legal and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, including fines, penalties, judgments,
damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation that we may suffer as a result of failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. This risk
also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. It also includes compliance with anti-money laundering and terrorist financing rules and regulations. We are
generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct our business (see also  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1, and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A).
We have established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to facilitate compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and to require that our policies relating to business
conduct, ethics and practices are followed globally. In addition, we have established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority
and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. The heightened legal and regulatory focus on the
financial services and banking industry presents a continuing business challenge for us.  

Table of Contents  

     Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:  
 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Firm ) as of December 31,
2016 and 2015 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in total equity for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility
of the Firm s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.  
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and

significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
 In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Firm as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Firm s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission, and our report dated February 27, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Firm s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
   New York, New York    February 27, 2017  

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Income Statements   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statements   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity   

1. 
   Debt valuation adjustment ( DVA ) represents the change in the fair value resulting from fluctuations in the
Firm s credit spreads and other credit factors related to liabilities carried at fair value under the fair value option, primarily related to certain Long-term and Short-term borrowings. In accordance with the early adoption of a provision of
the accounting update  Recognition and Mea  s  urement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , a cumulative  catch-up  adjustment was recorded as of January 1, 2016 to move the
cumulative unrealized DVA amount, net of noncontrolling interest and tax, related to outstanding liabilities under the fair value option election from Retained earnings into Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( AOCI ). See Notes
2 and 15 for further information.     

2. 
   In accordance with the accounting update  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis , a net adjustment was recorded
as of January 1, 2016 to both consolidate and deconsolidate certain entities under the new guidance. See Note 2 for further information.     

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Cash Flow Statements   

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information   
 Cash payments for interest were  $  2,834     million , $2,672 million and $3,575 million for  2016 , 2015 and
2014, respectively.    Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were  $  831     million , $677 million and
$886 million for  2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation   
  The Firm    Morgan Stanley, a financial
holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Morgan Stanley, through its subsidiaries
and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
 Morgan Stanley  or the  Firm  mean Morgan Stanley (the  Parent Company ) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  
 A description of the clients and principal products and services of each of the Firm s business segments is as follows:  
  Institutional Securities  provides investment banking, sales and trading, lending and other services to corporations,
governments, financial institutions, and high to ultra-high net worth clients. Investment banking services consist of capital raising and financial advisory services, including services relating to the underwriting of debt, equity and other
securities, as well as advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance. Sales and trading services include sales, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income products, including foreign
exchange and commodities, as well as prime brokerage services. Lending services include originating and/or purchasing corporate loans, commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, financing extended to equities and commodities
customers, and loans to municipalities. Other activities include investments and research.     Wealth Management 
provides a comprehensive array of financial services and solutions to individual investors and small to  medium-sized  businesses and institutions covering brokerage and investment advisory services, financial
and wealth planning services, annuity and insurance products, credit and other lending products, banking and retirement plan services.  
  Investment Management  provides a broad range of investment strategies and products that span geographies, asset
classes, and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across institutional and intermediary channels. Strategies and products include equity, fixed income, liquidity and alternative/other products. Institutional clients include
defined benefit/defined contribution plans, foundations, endowments, government entities, sovereign wealth

funds, insurance companies, third-party fund sponsors and corporations. Individual clients are serviced through intermediaries, including affiliated and
 non-affiliated  distributors.     Basis of Financial Information   
 The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
( U.S. GAAP ), which require the Firm to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, compensation, deferred tax assets, the outcome of legal and
tax matters, allowance for credit losses and other matters that affect its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Firm believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements are
prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to the current presentation.  
   Consolidation      The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Firm, its wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest, including certain variable interest entities ( VIE ) (see Note 13). For
consolidated subsidiaries that are less than wholly owned, the third-party holdings of equity interests are referred to as noncontrolling interests. The net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as Net
income applicable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated income statements. The portion of shareholders  equity that is attributable to noncontrolling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as noncontrolling interests, a
component of total equity, in the consolidated balance sheets.    For entities where (1) the total equity investment at risk is
sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks and returns of the entity and have the power to direct the activities of the
entity that most significantly affect its economic performance, the Firm consolidates those entities it controls either through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For VIEs ( i.e. , entities that do not meet these criteria), the Firm
consolidates those entities where it has the power to make the decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be
significant to the VIE, except for certain VIEs that are money market funds, investment companies or entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies. Generally, the Firm

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

consolidates those entities when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of the entities.  
 For investments in entities in which the Firm does not have a controlling financial interest but has significant influence over operating and
financial decisions, it generally applies the equity method of accounting with net gains and losses recorded within Other revenues (see Note 8). Where the Firm has elected to measure certain eligible investments at fair value in accordance with the
fair value option, net gains and losses are recorded within Investments revenues (see Note 3).    Equity and partnership interests held by
entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.    The Firm s significant regulated U.S.
and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC ( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ( MSSB LLC ), Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSMS ), Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association ( MSPBNA ).  
   Consolidated Cash Flow Statements Presentation    
 For purposes of the consolidated cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents consist of Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing
deposits with banks, which include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, that are held for investment purposes and are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.  
 The adoption of the accounting update,  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  (see Note 2) on January 1, 2016 resulted in a net
noncash increase in total assets of $126 million. The Firm deconsolidated approximately $244 million and $1.6 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively, in net assets previously attributable to noncontrolling interests that were
primarily related to or associated with real estate funds sponsored by the Firm. The deconsolidations resulted in a noncash reduction of assets of $222 million in 2015 and $1.3 billion in 2014.  
   Dispositions      The Firm completed
the sale of its global oil merchanting unit of the commodities division to Castleton Commodities International LLC on November 1, 2015. The Firm recognized an impairment charge of approximately $71 million in Other revenues. The
transaction did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and did not have a material impact on the Firm s financial results.

On July 1, 2014, the Firm completed the sale of its ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc.,
a U.S.-based oil storage, marketing and transportation company, as well as related physical inventory and the assumption of its obligations under certain terminal storage contracts, to NGL Energy Partners LP. The gain on sale of $112 million is
recorded in Other revenues.    On March 27, 2014, the Firm completed the sale of Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc., a public storage
terminal operator for refined products with two distribution terminals in Canada. The gain on sale was approximately $45 million and is recorded in Other revenues.  
    2. Significant Accounting Policies   
  Revenue Recognition       Investment Banking
     Underwriting revenues and advisory fees from mergers, acquisitions and restructuring transactions are recorded when services for
the transactions are determined to be substantially completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction,
are deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenues. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses.  Non-reimbursed  expenses associated with
advisory transactions are recorded within  Non-interest  expenses.      Commissions and Fees    
 Commission and fee revenues are recognized on trade date. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and   over-the-counter   ( OTC ) equity securities; services related to sales and trading activities; and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.
     Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees    
 Asset management, distribution and administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period. Sales commissions paid by the Firm in
connection with the sale of certain classes of shares of its  open-end  mutual fund products are accounted for as deferred commission assets. The Firm periodically tests deferred commission assets for
recoverability based on cash flows expected to be received in future periods.    In certain management fee arrangements, the Firm is
entitled to receive performance-based fees (which also may be referred to as incentive fees and which include carried interest) when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such
arrangements, performance fee revenues are accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account or fund performance to date versus the performance
bench- 

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

mark stated in the investment management agreement. Performance-based fees are recorded within Investments or Asset management, distribution and administration fees depending on the nature of the
arrangement.    The Firm s portion of the unrealized cumulative amount of performance-based fee revenues (for which the Firm is not
obligated to pay compensation) at risk of reversing if fund performance falls below stated investment management agreement benchmarks was approximately $397 million and $422 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015,
respectively. See Note 12 for information regarding general partner guarantees, which include potential obligations to return performance fee distributions previously received.  
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments   
 Instruments within Trading assets and Trading liabilities are measured at fair value, either in accordance with accounting guidance or through
the fair value option election (discussed below). These financial instruments primarily represent the Firm s trading and investment positions and include both cash and derivative products. In addition, debt securities classified as
available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities are measured at fair value.    Gains and losses on instruments carried at fair value are
reflected in Trading revenues, Investments revenues or Investment banking revenues in the consolidated income statements, except for AFS securities (see  Investment Securities Available for Sale and Held to Maturity  section herein
and Note 5) and derivatives accounted for as hedges (see  Hedge Accounting  section herein and Note 4).    Interest income and
interest expense are recorded within the consolidated income statements depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. When interest is included as a component of the instruments  fair value, interest is
included within Trading revenues or Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income or Interest expense. Dividend income is recorded in Trading revenues or Investments revenues depending on the business activity.
   The fair value of OTC financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, is
presented in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets on a   net-by-counterparty   basis, when appropriate. Additionally, the Firm nets the fair value of cash collateral
paid or received against the fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement.

Fair Value Option    
 The fair value option permits the irrevocable fair value option election at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that
gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Firm applies the fair value option for eligible instruments, including certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell, loans and lending commitments, equity method
investments, Deposits (structured certificate of deposits), Short-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Other secured financings and Long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes).  
   Fair Value Measurement Definition and Hierarchy    
 Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit
price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.    In determining fair value, the Firm uses
various valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used
when available.    Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that were developed
based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Firm. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect assumptions the Firm believes other market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that are developed based on the best
information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the observability of inputs as follows:  
  Level     1.     Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets that the Firm has the ability to
access for identical assets or liabilities. Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of
these products does not entail a significant degree of judgment.     Level     2.     Valuations
based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.  
  Level     3.     Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair
value measurement.    The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is affected by a wide variety of factors,

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, the liquidity of markets and other characteristics particular to the product.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Firm in determining fair
value is greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.    The Firm considers prices and inputs that are
current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be
reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or from Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 3).    In certain
cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls in
its entirety is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.    For
assets and liabilities that are transferred between levels in the fair value hierarchy during the period, fair values are ascribed as if the assets or liabilities had been transferred as of the beginning of the period.  
   Valuation Techniques      Many cash
instruments and OTC derivative contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that a party is willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices represent the lowest price that a party is willing
to accept for an asset. The Firm carries positions at the point within the  bid-ask  range that meet its best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same price
within the  bid-ask  spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.    Fair value for
many cash instruments and OTC derivative contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms, as well as multiple inputs, including, where applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield
curves, credit curves, correlation, creditworthiness of the counterparty, creditworthiness of the Firm, option volatility and currency rates.  
 Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various factors such as liquidity risk
 (bid-ask  adjustments), credit quality, model uncertainty and concentration risk. Adjustments for liquidity risk adjust model-derived  mid-market  levels of Level 2
and Level 3 financial
instru- 

ments for the  bid-mid  or  mid-ask  spread required to properly reflect the exit price of a risk position. Bid-mid and
 mid-ask  spreads are marked to levels observed in trade activity, broker quotes or other external third-party data. Where these spreads are unobservable for the particular position in question, spreads are
derived from observable levels of similar positions.    The Firm applies credit-related valuation adjustments to its short-term and
long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes) for which the fair value option was elected and to OTC derivatives. The Firm considers the impact of changes in its own credit spreads based upon observations of the secondary bond market spreads
when measuring the fair value for short-term and long-term borrowings.    For OTC derivatives, the impact of changes in both the Firm s
and the counterparty s credit rating is considered when measuring fair value. In determining the expected exposure, the Firm simulates the distribution of the future exposure to a counterparty, then applies market-based default probabilities to
the future exposure, leveraging external third-party credit default swap ( CDS ) spread data. Where CDS spread data are unavailable for a specific counterparty, bond market spreads, CDS spread data based on the counterparty s credit
rating or CDS spread data that reference a comparable counterparty may be utilized. The Firm also considers collateral held and legally enforceable master netting agreements that mitigate its exposure to each counterparty.  
 Adjustments for model uncertainty are taken for positions whose underlying models are reliant on significant inputs that are neither directly
nor indirectly observable, hence requiring reliance on established theoretical concepts in their derivation. These adjustments are derived by making assessments of the possible degree of variability using statistical approaches and market-based
information where possible.    The Firm may apply a concentration adjustment to certain of its OTC derivatives portfolios to reflect the
additional cost of closing out a particularly large risk exposure. Where possible, these adjustments are based on observable market information, but in many instances, significant judgment is required to estimate the costs of closing
out concentrated risk exposures due to the lack of liquidity in the marketplace.    The Firm applies funding valuation adjustments
( FVA ) into the fair value measurements of OTC uncollateralized or partially collateralized derivatives and in collateralized derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the collateral received. The Firm s
implementation of FVA reflects the inclusion of FVA in the pricing and valuations by the majority of market participants involved in its principal exit market for these instruments. In general, FVA

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

reflects a market funding risk premium inherent in the noted derivative instruments. The methodology for measuring FVA leverages the Firm s existing credit-related valuation adjustment
calculation methodologies, which apply to both assets and liabilities.    Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the
perspective of a market participant rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, assumptions are set to reflect those that the Firm believes market participants would use in pricing the
asset or liability at the measurement date. Where the Firm manages a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the Firm measures the fair value of that group of
financial instruments consistently with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.    See Note 3 for
a description of valuation techniques applied to the major categories of financial instruments measured at fair value.      Assets and Liabilities
Measured at Fair Value on a  Non-Recurring  Basis      Certain of the Firm s assets and
liabilities are measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis. The Firm incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets or liabilities to fair value.  
 For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis, fair value is determined
by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy for inputs as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when
available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.      Valuation Process    
 The Valuation Review Group ( VRG ) within the Firm s Financial Control Group ( FCG ) is responsible for the
Firm s fair value valuation policies, processes and procedures. VRG is independent of the business units and reports to the Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), who has final authority over the valuation of the Firm s financial
instruments. VRG implements valuation control processes designed to validate the fair value of the Firm s financial instruments measured at fair value, including those derived from pricing models.

Model Review.       VRG, in conjunction with the Model Risk
Management Department ( MRM ), which reports to the Chief Risk Officer, independently review valuation models  theoretical soundness, the appropriateness of the valuation methodology and calibration techniques developed by the
business units using observable inputs. Where inputs are not observable, VRG reviews the appropriateness of the proposed valuation methodology to determine that it is consistent with how a market participant would arrive at the unobservable input.
The valuation methodologies utilized in the absence of observable inputs may include extrapolation techniques and the use of comparable observable inputs. As part of the review, VRG develops a methodology to independently verify the fair value
generated by the business unit s valuation models. The Firm generally subjects valuations and models to a review process initially and on a periodic basis thereafter.  
  Independent Price Verification.     The business units are responsible for determining the fair value of financial
instruments using approved valuation models and valuation methodologies. Generally on a monthly basis, VRG independently validates the fair values of financial instruments determined using valuation models by determining the appropriateness of the
inputs used by the business units and by testing compliance with the documented valuation methodologies approved in the model review process described above.  
 The results of this independent price verification and any adjustments made by VRG to the fair value generated by the business units are
presented to management of the Firm s three business segments ( i.e.,  Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management), the CFO and the Chief Risk Officer on a regular basis.  
 VRG uses recently executed transactions, other observable market data such as exchange data, broker-dealer quotes, third-party pricing vendors
and aggregation services for validating the fair value of financial instruments generated using valuation models. VRG assesses the external sources and their valuation methodologies to determine if the external providers meet the minimum standards
expected of a third-party pricing source. Pricing data provided by approved external sources are evaluated using a number of approaches; for example, by corroborating the external sources  prices to executed trades, by analyzing the methodology
and assumptions used by the external source to generate a price, and/or by evaluating how active the third-party pricing source (or originating sources used by the third-party pricing source) is in the market. Based on this analysis, VRG generates a
ranking of the observable market data designed to ensure that the highest-ranked market data source is used to validate the business unit s fair value of financial instruments.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

VRG reviews the models and valuation methodology used to price new material Level 2 and
Level 3 transactions, and both FCG and MRM must approve the fair value of the trade that is initially recognized.  
  Level     3 Transactions.     VRG reviews the business unit s valuation techniques to assess
whether these are consistent with market participant assumptions.    For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value on a recurring and  non-recurring  basis, see Note 3.     Offsetting of Derivative
Instruments     In connection with its derivative activities, the Firm generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral
agreements with its counterparties. These agreements provide the Firm with the right, in the event of a default by the counterparty, to net a counterparty s rights and obligations under the agreement and to liquidate and set off collateral
against any net amount owed by the counterparty.    However, in certain circumstances, the Firm may not have such an agreement in place; the
relevant insolvency regime may not support the enforceability of the master netting agreement or collateral agreement; or the Firm may not have sought legal advice to support the enforceability of the agreement. In cases where the Firm has not
determined an agreement to be enforceable, the related amounts are not offset in the tabular disclosures (see Note 4).    The Firm s
policy is generally to receive securities and cash posted as collateral (with rights of rehypothecation), irrespective of the enforceability determination regarding the master netting and collateral agreement. In certain cases, the Firm may agree
for such collateral to be posted to a third-party custodian under a control agreement that enables it to take control of such collateral in the event of a counterparty default. The enforceability of the master netting agreement is taken into account
in the Firm s risk management practices and application of counterparty credit limits.    For information related to offsetting of
derivatives and certain collateralized transactions, see Notes 4 and 6, respectively.     Hedge Accounting   
 The Firm applies hedge accounting using various derivative financial instruments for the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair
value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges); and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the Parent Company (net investment hedges).
These financial
instru- 

ments are included within Trading assets Derivative and other contracts or Trading liabilities Derivative and other contracts in the consolidated balance sheets. For hedges where hedge
accounting is being applied, the Firm performs effectiveness testing and other procedures.      Fair Value Hedges Interest Rate Risk    
 The Firm s designated fair value hedges consist primarily of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of changes in the
benchmark interest rate of fixed rate senior long-term borrowings. The Firm uses regression analysis to perform an ongoing prospective and retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships. A hedging relationship is deemed
effective if the change in fair value of the hedging instrument (derivative) and the change in fair value of the hedged item (debt liability) due to changes in the benchmark interest rate offset within a range of 80% to 125%. The Firm considers the
impact of valuation adjustments related to its own credit spreads and counterparty credit spreads to determine whether they would cause the hedging relationship to be ineffective.  
 For qualifying fair value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair
value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense. When a derivative is  de-designated  as a hedge, any basis
adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the remaining life of the liability using the effective interest method.  
   Net Investment Hedges      The Firm
uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage a portion of the currency exposure relating to its net investments in  non-U.S.  dollar functional currency operations. To the extent that the notional amounts
of the hedging instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged and the underlying exchange rate of the derivative hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional currency of the investee and the Parent
Company s functional currency, no hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings. If these exchange rates are not the same, the Firm uses regression analysis to assess the prospective and retrospective effectiveness of the hedge relationships,
and any ineffectiveness is recognized in Interest income. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is reported within AOCI. The forward points on the hedging instruments are excluded from hedge
effectiveness testing and are recorded in Interest income.    For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see
Note 4.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Loans   
 The Firm accounts for loans based on the following categories: loans held for investment; loans held for sale; and loans at fair value.  
   Loans Held for Investment      Loans
held for investment are reported at outstanding principal adjusted for any charge-offs, the allowance for loan losses, any unamortized deferred fees or costs for originated loans, and any unamortized premiums or discounts for purchased loans.  
  Interest Income.       Interest income on performing loans held for investment is accrued and recognized as
interest income at the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or premiums, as well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are amortized into interest income over the life of the loan to produce a level rate of return.     
  Allowance for Loan Losses.       The allowance for loan losses estimates probable losses related to loans
specifically identified for impairment in addition to the probable losses inherent in the held for investment loan portfolio.    The Firm
utilizes the U.S. banking regulators  definition of criticized exposures, which consist of the special mention substandard, doubtful and loss categories as credit quality indicators. For further information on the credit indicators, see Note 7.
Substandard loans are regularly reviewed for impairment. Factors considered by management when determining impairment include payment status, fair value of collateral, and probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due.
The impairment analysis required depends on the nature and type of loans. Loans classified as Doubtful or Loss are considered impaired.  
 There are two components of the allowance for loan losses: the specific allowance component and the inherent allowance component.  
 The specific allowance component of the allowance for loan losses is used to estimate probable losses for
 non-homogeneous  exposures that have been specifically identified for impairment analysis by the Firm and determined to be impaired. When a loan is specifically identified for impairment, the impairment is
measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is
collateral dependent. If the present value of the expected future cash flows (or alternatively, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral) is less than the recorded investment in the loan, then the Firm

recognizes an allowance and a charge to the provision for loan losses within Other revenues.  
 The inherent allowance component of the allowance for loan losses is used to estimate the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and
includes  non-homogeneous  loans that have not been identified as impaired and portfolios of smaller balance homogeneous loans. The Firm maintains methodologies by loan product for calculating an allowance for
loan losses that estimates the inherent losses in the loan portfolio. Generally, inherent losses in the portfolio for  non-impaired  loans are estimated using statistical analysis and judgment around the
exposure at default, the probability of default and the loss given default. Qualitative and environmental factors such as economic and business conditions, nature and volume of the portfolio, and lending terms and volume and severity of past due
loans may also be considered in the calculations. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level reasonable to ensure that it can adequately absorb the estimated probable losses inherent in the portfolio. The Firm recognizes an allowance and
a charge to the provision for loan losses within Other revenues.     Troubled Debt Restructurings.       The
Firm may modify the terms of certain loans for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties by granting one or more concessions that the Firm would not otherwise consider. Such modifications are accounted for and
reported as troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ). A loan that has been modified in a TDR is generally considered to be impaired and is evaluated for the extent of impairment using the Firm s specific allowance methodology. TDRs are
also generally classified as nonaccrual and may only be returned to accrual status after considering the borrower s sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period.  
  Nonaccrual Loans.       The Firm places loans on nonaccrual status if principal or interest is past due for a
period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest is in doubt unless the obligation is well-secured and in the process of collection. A loan is considered past due when a payment due according to the contractual terms of the loan
agreement has not been remitted by the borrower. Substandard loans, if identified as impaired, are categorized as nonaccrual. Loans classified as Doubtful or Loss are categorized as nonaccrual.  
 Payments received on nonaccrual loans held for investment are applied to principal if there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of
principal ( i.e ., cost recovery method). If collection of the principal of nonaccrual loans held for investment is not in doubt, interest income is recognized on a cash basis. If neither principal nor interest collection is in doubt, loans are
on accrual status, and interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. Loans that are on
nonac- 

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

crual status may not be restored to accrual status until all delinquent principal and/or interest has been brought current after a reasonable period of performance, typically a minimum of
six months.     Charge-offs.       The Firm charges off a loan in the period that it is deemed
uncollectible and records a reduction in the allowance for loan losses and the balance of the loan. In general, any portion of the recorded investment in a collateral dependent loan (including any capitalized accrued interest, net deferred loan fees
or costs, and unamortized premium or discount) in excess of the fair value of the collateral that can be identified as uncollectible, and is therefore deemed a confirmed loss, is charged off against the allowance for loan losses. A loan is
collateral dependent if the repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the sale or operation of the underlying collateral. In addition, for loan transfers from loans held for investment to loans held for sale, at the time of
transfer, any reduction in the loan value is reflected as a  charge-off  of the recorded investment, resulting in a new cost basis.  
  Lending Commitments.       The Firm records the liability and related expense for the credit exposure related
to commitments to fund loans that will be held for investment in a manner similar to outstanding loans disclosed above. The analysis also incorporates a credit conversion factor, which is the expected utilization of the undrawn commitment. The
liability is recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets, and the expense is recorded in Other  non-interest  expenses in the consolidated income statements. For more
information regarding loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, see Note 12.      Loans Held for Sale    
 Loans held for sale are measured at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in Other revenues. The Firm determines
the valuation allowance on an individual loan basis, except for residential mortgage loans for which the valuation allowance is determined at the loan product level. Any decreases in fair value below the initial carrying amount and any recoveries in
fair value up to the initial carrying amount are recorded in Other revenues. However, increases in fair value above initial carrying value are not recognized.  
 Interest income on loans held for sale is accrued and recognized based on the contractual rate of interest. Loan origination fees or costs and
purchase price discounts or premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the related loan is sold. The deferred fees or costs and discounts or premiums are an adjustment to the basis of the loan and, therefore, are

included in the periodic determination of the lower of cost or fair value adjustments and/or the gain or loss recognized at the time of sale.  
  Lending Commitments .    Commitments to fund  non-mortgage  loans held for
sale are not derivatives. The Firm records the liability and related expense for the fair value exposure (if the fair value is below the cost) related to commitments to fund  non-mortgage  loans that will be
held for sale in Other liabilities and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheets with an offset to Other revenues in the consolidated income statements. Commitments to fund mortgage loans held for sale are derivatives. The Firm records the
derivative asset or liability exposure in Trading assets or Trading liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets with an offset to Trading revenues in the consolidated income statements.  
 Loans and lending commitments held for sale are subject to the nonaccrual policies described above. Because loans and lending commitments held
for sale are recognized at the lower of cost or fair value, the allowance for loan losses and  charge-off  policies does not apply to these loans.  
   Loans at Fair Value      Loans for
which the fair value option is elected are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. Loans carried at fair value are not evaluated for purposes of recording an allowance for loan losses. For further information on
loans carried at fair value and classified as Trading assets and Trading liabilities ,  see Note 3.     Lending
Commitments.     The Firm records the liability and related expense for the fair value exposure related to commitments to fund loans that will be measured at fair value. The liability is recorded in Trading liabilities in
the consolidated balance sheets, and the expense is recorded in Trading revenues in the consolidated income statements.    For further
information on loans, see Note 7.     Transfers of Financial Assets   
 Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when the Firm has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Any related gain
or loss on sale is recorded in Net revenues. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are treated as a collateralized financing, in certain cases referred to as  failed sales.  Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Note 6). Securities purchased under agreements to resell ( reverse repurchase
agreements ) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ) are carried on the consolidated balance sheets at the amounts of

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

cash paid or received, plus accrued interest, except for certain repurchase agreements for which the Firm has elected the fair value option (see Note 3). Where appropriate, repurchase
agreements and reverse repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. Securities borrowed and securities loaned are recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received.  
  Premises, Equipment and Software Costs   
 Premises, equipment and software costs consist of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, computer and communications
equipment, power generation assets, terminals, pipelines and software (externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises, equipment and software costs are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization and are included in
Other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: buildings 39 years; furniture
and fixtures 7 years; computer and communications equipment 3 to 9 years; power generation assets 15 to 29 years; and terminals, pipelines and equipment 3 to 30 years. Estimated useful lives for software costs are generally 3 to
10 years.    Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the
remaining term of the lease but generally not exceeding 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.  
 Premises, equipment and software costs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset s
carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with current accounting guidance.     Goodwill and Intangible Assets   
 The Firm tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Firm tests
for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. For both the annual and interim tests, the Firm has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the
existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Firm determines
it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the  two-step  impairment test is not required. However, if the Firm concludes otherwise,
then it is required to perform the first step of the  two-step  impairment test.

Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with
its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to
determine the amount of the impairment. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Firm believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units.  
 The estimated fair values are generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate   price-to-book   and   price-to-earnings   multiples of certain comparable companies.  
 Goodwill is not amortized but, as noted above, is reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for
impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment. Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated income statements.  
  Income Taxes     The Firm accounts for
income tax expense (benefit) using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and
liabilities using currently enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income tax expense (benefit) in the
period that includes the enactment date.    The Firm recognizes net deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more
likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Firm considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning
strategies and results of recent operations. If a deferred tax asset is determined to be unrealizable, a valuation allowance is established. If the Firm determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their
net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes.  
 Uncertain tax positions are recorded on the basis of a  two-step  process, whereby (1) the Firm
determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the  more-likely-than-not  recognition threshold, the
Firm recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as provision for income
taxes.     Earnings per Common Share   
 Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing earnings available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Earnings available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders represents net income applicable to Morgan Stanley reduced by preferred stock dividends and allocations of earnings to
participating securities. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock units ( RSUs ) where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligibility requirements. Diluted EPS
reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities.    Unvested share-based payment awards that contain  non-forfeitable  rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and are included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the
 two-class  method. Share-based payment awards that pay dividend equivalents subject to vesting are not deemed participating securities and are included in diluted shares outstanding (if dilutive) under the
treasury stock method.    The Firm has granted performance-based stock units ( PSUs ) that vest and convert to shares of common
stock only if it satisfies predetermined performance and market goals. Since the issuance of the shares is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, the PSUs are included in diluted EPS based on the number of shares (if any) that would
be issuable if the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period.    For the calculation of basic and diluted EPS, see
Note 16.     Deferred Compensation       Stock-Based
Compensation      The Firm measures compensation cost for stock-based awards at fair value and recognizes compensation cost over the
service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Firm determines the fair value of RSUs (including RSUs with  non-market  performance conditions) based on the grant-date fair value of its common stock, measured
as the   volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. RSUs with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo

valuation model. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model and the single grant life method. Under the single grant life method, option awards with
graded vesting are valued using a single weighted average expected option life.    Compensation expense for stock-based compensation awards
is recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. Compensation expense for awards with performance conditions is recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance condition at each reporting date. Compensation expense for awards
with market-based conditions is recognized irrespective of the probability of the market condition being achieved and is not reversed if the market condition is not met.  
 The Firm recognizes the expense for stock-based awards over the requisite service period. These awards generally contain clawback and
cancellation provisions. Certain awards provide the Firm discretion to cancel all or a portion of the award under specified circumstances. Compensation expense for those awards is adjusted for changes in the fair value of the Firm s common
stock or the relevant model valuation, as appropriate, until conversion, exercise or expiration.    For
 year-end  stock-based awards anticipated to be granted to retirement-eligible employees under award terms that do not contain a future service requirement, the Firm accrues the estimated cost over the course of
the calendar year preceding the grant date. The Firm believes that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.  
   Employee Stock Trusts      In
connection with certain stock-based compensation plans, the Firm maintains and utilizes at its discretion trusts, referred to as  Employee stock trusts.  The assets of the Employee stock trusts are consolidated and, as such, are accounted
for in a manner similar to treasury stock, where the shares of common stock outstanding are offset by an equal amount in Common stock issued to employee stock trusts.  
 The Firm uses the grant-date fair value of stock-based compensation as the basis for recognition of the assets in the Employee stock trusts.
Subsequent changes in the fair value are not recognized as the Firm s stock-based compensation plans do not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Firm s common stock.  
   Deferred Cash-Based Compensation    
 Compensation expense for deferred cash-based compensation plans is calculated based on the notional value of the award

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

granted, adjusted for changes in the fair value of the referenced investments. For unvested awards, the expense is recognized over the service period using the graded vesting attribution method.
For vested awards with only notional earnings on the referenced investments, the expense is fully recognized in the current period. For year-end awards anticipated to be granted to retirement-eligible employees under award terms that do not contain
a future service requirement, the Firm accrues the estimated cost over the course of the calendar year preceding the grant date. The Firm believes that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees reflects the period over which the
compensation is earned.    The Firm often invests directly, as a principal, in investments or other financial instruments to economically
hedge its obligations under its deferred cash-based compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Firm are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues. Changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in the
fair value of the referenced investments will generally be offset by changes in the fair value of investments made by the Firm. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate recognition of gains and losses on the Firm s
investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.     Foreign Currencies   
 Assets and liabilities of operations having  non-U.S.  dollar functional currencies are translated at  year-end  rates of exchange. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in AOCI, a separate component of
Morgan Stanley Shareholders  equity on the consolidated balance sheets. Gains or losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are included in net income, and amounts recognized in the income statement are translated
at the rate of exchange on the respective date of recognition for each amount.     Investment Securities Available for Sale and Held to Maturity
    AFS securities are reported at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets with unrealized gains and losses reported in AOCI, net
of tax. Interest and dividend income, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in Interest income in the consolidated income statements. Realized gains and losses on AFS securities are reported in the consolidated
income statements (see Note 5). The Firm utilizes the   first-in,   first-out   method as the basis for determining the cost of AFS securities.  
 Held-to-maturity ( HTM ) securities are reported at amortized cost in the consolidated balance sheets. Interest income,

including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on HTM securities, is included in Interest income in the consolidated income statements.  
   Other-than-temporary Impairment    
 AFS debt securities and HTM securities with a current fair value less than their amortized cost are analyzed as part of the Firm s
periodic assessment of temporary versus other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) at the individual security level. A temporary impairment is recognized in AOCI. OTTI is recognized in the consolidated income statements with the exception of
the  non-credit  portion related to a debt security that the Firm does not intend to sell and is not likely to be required to sell, which is recognized in AOCI.  
 For AFS debt securities that the Firm either has the intent to sell or that the Firm is likely to be required to sell before recovery of its
amortized cost basis, the impairment is considered other-than-temporary.    For those AFS debt securities that the Firm does not have the
intent to sell or is not likely to be required to sell, and for all HTM securities, the Firm evaluates whether it expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Firm does not expect to recover the entire amortized
cost of those AFS debt securities or HTM securities, the impairment is considered other-than-temporary, and the Firm determines what portion of the impairment relates to a credit loss and what portion relates to
 non-credit  factors.    A credit loss exists if the present value of cash flows expected to be
collected (discounted at the implicit interest rate at acquisition of the security or discounted at the effective yield for securities that incorporate changes in prepayment assumptions) is less than the amortized cost basis of the security. Changes
in prepayment assumptions alone are not considered to result in a credit loss.    When determining if a credit loss exists, the Firm
considers relevant information, including:      

the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis;

adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or geographic area;

changes in the financial condition of the issuer of the security or, in the case of an asset-backed debt
security, changes in the financial condition of the underlying loan obligors;         

the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security;     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that
increase in the future;         

failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled interest or principal payments;     

any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency;     

recoveries or additional declines in fair value after the balance sheet date.     
 When estimating the present value of expected cash flows, information includes the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds,
financial condition of the issuer(s), expected defaults and the value of any underlying collateral.    For AFS equity securities, the Firm
considers various factors, including the intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value in evaluating whether an OTTI exists. If the equity security is considered
other-than-temporarily impaired, the entire OTTI ( i.e. , the difference between the fair value recorded on the balance sheet and the cost basis) will be recognized in the consolidated income statements.  
  Accounting Standards Adopted     The Firm
adopted the following accounting updates as of January 1, 2016:      

Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities.      In January 2016, the Financial

Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ) issued an accounting update that changed the requirements for the recognition and measurement of certain financial assets and financial
liabilities. The Firm early adopted the provision in this guidance relating to liabilities measured at fair value pursuant to a fair value option election that requires presenting unrealized DVA in Other comprehensive income (loss)
( OCI ), a change from the previous requirement to present DVA in net income. Realized DVA amounts will be recycled from AOCI to Trading revenues. DVA amounts from periods prior to adoption remain in Trading revenues as previously
reported. A cumulative  catch-up  adjustment, net of noncontrolling interests and tax, of $312 million was recorded as of January 1, 2016 to move the cumulative unrealized DVA loss amount from Retained
earnings into AOCI.       Other provisions of this rule may not be early adopted and will be effective
January 1, 2018, but they are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.      

Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis.      In February 2015, the FASB
issued an accounting update that provides a new consolidation model for certain entities, such as investment funds and limited partnerships. The Firm adopted this guidance on January 1, 2016 by recording a net adjustment to equity on
January 1, 2016. This adoption increased total assets by $131 million, reflecting consolidations of $206 million, net of deconsolidations of $75 million. The consolidations resulted primarily from certain funds in Investment
Management where the Firm acts as a general partner.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

3. Fair Values   
  Fair Value Measurements      Valuation Techniques for Assets and
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       

Asset and Liability / Valuation Technique  
   
  Valuation Hierarchy Classification   

Trading Assets and Trading
Liabilities   
 
    U.S. Treasury
Securities     Fair value is determined using quoted market prices; valuation adjustments are not applied.  
   
    Generally
Level 1   
 
    U.S. Agency
Securities      Non-callable  agency-issued debt securities are generally valued
using quoted market prices, and callable agency-issued debt securities are valued by benchmarking model-derived prices to quoted market prices and trade data for comparable instruments. 
  The fair value of agency mortgage pass-through pool securities is model-driven based on spreads of a comparable   to-be-announced   security.    Collateralized
mortgage obligations are generally valued using quoted market prices and trade data adjusted by subsequent changes in related indices for comparable instruments.  
   
    Level  1 non-callable  agency-issued debt securities    Generally Level 2 callable
agency-issued debt securities, agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 
  Level 3 in instances where the inputs are unobservable   
 
    Other Sovereign
Government Obligations     Fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets when available.  
   
    Generally
Level 1    Level 2 if the market is less active or prices are dispersed 
  Level 3 in instances where the inputs are unobservable   
 
    State and Municipal
Securities     Fair value is determined using recently executed transactions, market price quotations or pricing models
that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or CDS spreads and volatility and/or volatility skew, adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments.  
   
    Generally
Level 2 if value based on observable market data for comparable instruments   
 
    Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities ( RMBS ), Commercial
Mortgage-Backed Securities ( CMBS ) and other Asset-Backed Securities ( ABS )     RMBS, CMBS and
other ABS may be valued based on price or spread data obtained from observed transactions or independent external parties such as vendors or brokers. 
  When position-specific external price data are not observable, the fair value determination may require benchmarking to
comparable instruments, and/or analyzing expected credit losses, default and recovery rates, and/or applying discounted cash flow techniques. When evaluating the comparable instruments for use in the valuation of each security, security
collateral-specific attributes, including payment priority, credit enhancement levels, type of collateral, delinquency rates and loss severity, are considered. In addition, for RMBS borrowers, Fair Isaac Corporation ( FICO ) scores and the
level of documentation for the loan are considered.    Market standard models, such as Intex, Trepp or others, may be
deployed to model the specific collateral composition and cash flow structure of each transaction. Key inputs to these models are market spreads, forecasted credit losses, and default and prepayment rates for each asset category. 
  Valuation levels of RMBS and CMBS indices are used as an additional data point for benchmarking purposes or to price
outright index positions.  
   
    Generally Level 2 if value based on
observable market data for comparable instruments    Level 3 if external prices or significant spread inputs are
unobservable or if the comparability assessment involves significant subjectivity related to property type differences, cash flows, performance and other inputs   

Corporate Bonds  
  Fair value is determined using recently executed transactions, market price quotations, bond spreads, CDS spreads, or at
the money volatility and/or volatility skew obtained from independent external parties, such as vendors and brokers, adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments. 
  The spread data used are for the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data do not reference the issuer, then data that
reference a comparable issuer are used. When position-specific external price data are not observable, fair value is determined based on either benchmarking to comparable instruments or cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name CDS
spreads and recovery rates as significant inputs.  

Level 2 if value based on observable market data for comparable instruments 
  Level 3 in instances where prices or significant spread inputs are
unobservable    

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Asset and Liability / Valuation Technique  
   
  Valuation Hierarchy Classification   

Collateralized Debt
Obligations ( CDO ) and Collateralized Loan Obligations ( CLO )     The Firm holds cash CDOs/CLOs
that typically reference a tranche of an underlying synthetic portfolio of single name CDS spreads collateralized by corporate bonds ( credit-linked notes ) or cash portfolio of asset-backed securities/loans ( asset-backed
CDOs/CLOs ).    Credit correlation, a primary input used to determine the fair value of credit-linked notes, is
usually unobservable and derived using a benchmarking technique. Other model inputs such as credit spreads, including collateral spreads, and interest rates are typically observable. 
  Asset-backed CDOs/CLOs are valued based on an evaluation of the market and model input parameters sourced from comparable
instruments as indicated by market activity. Each asset-backed CDO/CLO position is evaluated independently taking into consideration available comparable market levels, underlying collateral performance and pricing, deal structures and
liquidity.  
   
    Level 2 when
either comparable market transactions are observable or credit correlation input is insignificant    Level 3 when
either comparable market transactions are unobservable or the credit correlation input is significant   
 
    Loans and Lending
Commitments     Fair value of corporate loans is determined using recently executed transactions, market price
quotations (where observable), implied yields from comparable debt, market observable CDS spread levels obtained from independent external parties adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments, along with proprietary
valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable.    Fair value of
contingent corporate lending commitments is determined by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of loans and lending
commitments also takes into account fee income that is considered an attribute of the contract.    Fair value of mortgage
loans is determined using observable prices based on transactional data or third-party pricing for comparable instruments, when available. 
  Where position-specific external prices are not observable, fair value is estimated based on benchmarking to prices and
rates observed in the primary market for similar loan or borrower types or based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield
curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved or a methodology that utilizes the capital structure and credit spreads of recent comparable securitization transactions. 
  Fair value of equity margin loans is determined by discounting future interest cash flows, net of estimated credit losses.
The estimated credit losses are derived by benchmarking to market observable CDS spreads, implied debt yields or volatility metrics of the loan collateral company.  
   
    Level 2 if
value based on observable market data for comparable instruments    Level 3 in instances where prices or significant
spread inputs are unobservable   
 
    Corporate
Equities     Exchange-traded equity securities are generally valued based on quoted prices from the exchange. To the
extent these securities are actively traded, valuation adjustments are not applied.    Unlisted equity securities are
generally valued based on an assessment of each underlying security, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and market- based information, including comparable Firm transactions, trading multiples
and changes in market outlook, among other factors.    Listed fund units are generally marked to the exchange-traded
price, while listed fund units if not actively traded and unlisted fund units are generally marked to Net Asset Value ( NAV ).  
   
    Level
1 exchange-traded securities and fund units if actively traded    Level 2 exchange-traded securities if not
actively traded or if undergoing a recent mergers and acquisitions event or corporate action    Level 3 unlisted
equity securities and exchange-traded securities if not actively traded or if marked to an aged mergers and acquisitions event or corporate action 
  Certain fund units that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share are not classified in the fair value
hierarchy   

Listed Derivative Contracts  
  Listed derivatives that are actively traded are valued based on quoted prices from the exchange. 
  Listed derivatives that are not actively traded are valued using the same approaches as those applied to OTC
derivatives.  

Level 1 listed derivatives that are actively traded 
  Level 2 listed derivatives that are not actively
traded    

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Asset and Liability / Valuation Technique  
   
  Valuation Hierarchy Classification   

OTC Derivative Contracts  
  OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, foreign currencies, credit
standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.    Depending on the product and the terms of the
transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulas, such as the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing
models do not entail material subjectivity as the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, since model inputs may be observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swaps, many equity, commodity
and foreign currency option contracts, and certain CDS. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Firm are widely accepted by the financial services industry. 
  More complex OTC derivative products are typically less liquid and require more judgment in the implementation of the
valuation technique since direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. This includes certain types of interest rate derivatives with both volatility and correlation exposure, equity, commodity or foreign currency derivatives which are either
longer-dated or include exposure to multiple underlyings, and credit derivatives, including CDS on certain mortgage- or asset-backed securities and basket CDS. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable data points, based on
historic and/or implied observations, may be employed as a technique to estimate the model input values.    For further
information on the valuation techniques for OTC derivative products, see Note 2.    For further information on derivative
instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.  
   
    Generally Level
2 OTC derivative products valued using observable inputs, or where the unobservable input is not deemed significant. 
  Level 3 OTC derivative products for which the unobservable input is deemed significant   

Investments  
  Investments include direct investments in equity securities, as well as various investment management funds, which include
investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans.    Direct investments are presented in
the fair value hierarchy table as Principal investments and Other. Initially, the transaction price is generally considered by the Firm as the exit price and is its best estimate of fair value. 
  After initial recognition, in determining the fair value of  non-exchange-traded 
internally and externally managed funds, the Firm generally considers the NAV of the fund provided by the fund manager to be the best estimate of fair value. For  non-exchange-traded  investments either held
directly or held within internally managed funds, fair value after initial recognition is based on an assessment of each underlying investment, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and
market-based information, including comparable Firm transactions, trading multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors. Exchange-traded direct equity investments are generally valued based on quoted prices from the exchange.  

Level
1 exchange-traded direct equity investments in an active market    Level
 2 non-exchange-traded  direct equity investments and investments in various investment management funds if valued based on rounds of financing or third-party transactions; exchange-traded direct equity
investments if not actively traded    Level  3 non-exchange-traded  direct
equity investments and investments in various investment management funds where rounds of financing or third-party transactions are not available 
  Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.
For additional disclosure about such investments, see  Fair Value of Investments Measured at Net Asset Value  herein.   
 
    Physical Commodities  
  The Firm trades various physical commodities, including natural gas and precious metals. 
  Fair value is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices.  

Generally Level 2 if value based on observable inputs   

Investment Securities   
 
    AFS Securities  
  AFS securities are composed of U.S. government and agency securities ( e.g. , U.S. Treasury securities, agency-issued
debt, agency mortgage pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations), CMBS, Federal Family Education Loan Program ( FFELP ) student loan ABS, auto loan ABS, corporate bonds, CLOs and actively traded equity securities. 
  For further information on the determination of fair value, refer to the corresponding asset/liability valuation technique
described herein.    For further information on AFS securities, see Note 5.  

For further information on Valuation Hierarchy Classification, see corresponding Valuation Technique described
herein.    

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Asset and Liability / Valuation Technique  
   
  Valuation Hierarchy Classification   

Certificates of Deposit  
  The Firm issues Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insured certificates of deposit that pay either
fixed coupons or that have repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices or currencies. The fair value of these certificates of deposit is determined using valuation models that incorporate observable inputs
referencing identical or comparable securities, including prices to which the deposits are linked, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates, equity prices, and the impact of the Firm s own credit spreads, adjusted for
the impact of the FDIC insurance, which is based on vanilla deposit issuance rates.  

Generally Level 2   

Short-Term Borrowings/Long-Term Borrowings   

Structured Notes  
  The Firm issues structured notes that have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, indices, currencies or commodities.    Fair value of structured notes is determined using valuation models for
the derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs referencing identical or comparable securities, including prices to which the notes are linked, interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency
rates, and commodity or equity prices.    Independent, external and traded prices for the notes are considered as well.
The impact of the Firm s own credit spreads is also included based on observed secondary bond market spreads.  

Generally Level 2 
  Level 3 in instances where the unobservable inputs are deemed significant   

Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase   

Fair value is computed using a standard cash flow discounting methodology. 
  The inputs to the valuation include contractual cash flows and collateral funding spreads, which are estimated using
various benchmarks, interest rate yield curves and option volatilities.  

Generally Level 2 
  Level 3 in instances where the unobservable inputs are deemed significant   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

2. 
   For trading purposes, the Firm holds or sells short equity securities issued by entities in diverse industries and of
varying sizes.     

3. 
   For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty
netting and cash collateral netting are included in the column titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included
within that shared level. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 4.     

4. 
   Amounts exclude certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share, which are not classified in
the fair value hierarchy. For additional disclosure about such investments, see  Fair Value of Investments Measured at Net Asset Value  herein.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   
        The following tables present additional information about Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis for 2016, 2015 and 2014. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities
within the Level 3 category presented in the following tables do not reflect the related realized and unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that have been classified by the Firm within the Level 1 and/or
Level 2 categories.    Additionally, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions
that the Firm has classified within the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) during the period for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in
the following tables herein may include changes in fair value during the period that were attributable to both observable and unobservable inputs. Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Trading revenues in the
consolidated income statements.      

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. 
   Loan originations and consolidations of VIEs are included in purchases.     

2. 
   Net derivative and other contracts represent Trading assets Derivative and other contracts, net of Trading
liabilities Derivative and other contracts.     

3. 
   During 2014, the Firm incurred a charge of approximately $468 million related to the implementation of the FVA,
which was recognized in Trading revenues. For further information on the implementation of FVA, see Note 2.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Significant Unobservable Inputs Used in Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements   
 The following disclosures provide information on the valuation techniques, significant unobservable inputs, and their ranges and averages for
each major category of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis with a significant Level 3 balance. The level of aggregation and breadth of products cause the range of inputs to be wide and not evenly distributed
across the inventory. Further, the range of unobservable inputs may differ across firms in the financial services industry because of diversity in the types of products included in each firm s inventory. The following disclosures also include
qualitative information on the sensitivity of the fair value measurements to changes in the significant unobservable inputs. There are no predictable relationships between multiple significant unobservable inputs attributable to a given valuation
technique. A single amount is disclosed when there is no significant difference between the minimum, maximum and average (weighted average or simple average / median).  
  Valuation Techniques and Sensitivity of Unobservable Inputs Used in Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

bps Basis points. A basis point equals 1/100 th  of 1%.  
 Points Percentage of par    MWh Megawatt hours  
 N/M Not Meaningful    EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization  

1. 
   Amounts represent weighted averages except where simple averages and the median of the inputs are provided when more
relevant.     

2. 
   Credit valuation adjustment ( CVA ) and FVA are included in the balance but excluded from the Valuation
Technique(s) and Significant Unobservable Inputs in the previous table. CVA is a Level 3 input when the underlying counterparty credit curve is unobservable. FVA is a Level 3 input in its entirety given the lack of observability of funding
spreads in the principal market.     

3. 
   Includes derivative contracts with multiple risks ( i.e. , hybrid products).     

Significant Unobservable Inputs   Description  
   
  Sensitivity   

Asset coverage  The ratio of a borrower s underlying pledged assets less applicable costs relative to their outstanding debt
(while considering the loan s principal and the seniority and security of the loan commitment). 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the asset coverage for an asset would result in a higher (lower) fair value.  
 
  Capitalization rate  The ratio between net operating income produced by an asset and its market value at the projected disposition
date. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the capitalization rate for an asset would result in a lower (higher) fair value.  
 
  Cash synthetic basis  The measure of the price differential between cash financial instruments and their synthetic derivative-based
equivalents. The range disclosed in the table above signifies the number of points by which the synthetic bond equivalent price is higher than the quoted price of the underlying cash bonds. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the cash synthetic basis for an asset would result in a lower (higher) fair value.  
 
    Comparable bond price  A pricing input used when
prices for the identical instrument are not available. Significant subjectivity may be involved when fair value is determined using pricing data available for comparable instruments. Valuation using comparable instruments can be done by calculating
an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a comparable bond, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to derive a value for the bond. The adjustment to yield (or spread) should account for relevant differences in the bonds
such as maturity or credit quality.       Alternatively, a   price-to-price   basis can be assumed between the comparable instrument and the bond being valued in order to establish the value of the bond. Additionally, as the probability of default increases for a given
bond ( i.e. , as the bond becomes more distressed), the valuation of that bond will increasingly reflect its expected recovery level assuming default. The decision to use
  price-to-price   or yield/spread comparisons largely reflects trading market convention for the financial instruments in question.   Price-to-price   comparisons are primarily employed for RMBS, CMBS, ABS, CDOs, CLOs, Other debt, interest rate contracts, foreign exchange contracts, Other secured financings and distressed corporate bonds.
Implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) is utilized predominately for  non-distressed  corporate bonds, loans and credit contracts.  
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the comparable bond price for an asset would result in a higher (lower) fair value.  
 
  Comparable equity price  A price derived from equity raises, share buybacks and external bid levels, etc. A discount or premium may
be included in the fair value estimate. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the comparable equity price of an asset would result in a higher (lower) fair
value.   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Significant Unobservable Inputs Description  
   
  Sensitivity   

Correlation  A pricing input where the payoff is driven by more than one underlying risk. Correlation is a measure of the
relationship between the movements of two variables ( i.e. , how the change in one variable influences a change in the other variable). Credit correlation, for example, is the factor that describes the relationship between the probability of
individual entities to default on obligations and the joint probability of multiple entities to default on obligations. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the correlation would result in an impact to the fair value, but the magnitude and direction of the
impact would depend on whether the Firm is long or short the exposure.  
 
  Credit spread  The difference in yield between different securities due to differences in credit quality. The credit spread
reflects the additional net yield an investor can earn from a security with more credit risk relative to one with less credit risk. The credit spread of a particular security is often quoted in relation to the yield on a credit  risk-free  benchmark security or reference rate, typically either U.S. Treasury or London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ). 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the credit spread of an asset would result in a lower (higher) fair value.  
 
  EBITDA multiple / Exit multiple  The ratio of the Enterprise Value to EBITDA, where the Enterprise Value is the aggregate value
of equity and debt minus cash and cash equivalents. The EBITDA multiple reflects the value of the company in terms of its  full-year  EBITDA, whereas the exit multiple reflects the value of the company in terms
of its full-year expected EBITDA at exit. Either multiple allows comparison between companies from an operational perspective as the effect of capital structure, taxation and depreciation/amortization is excluded. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the EBITDA or Exit multiple of an asset would result in a higher (lower) fair value.  
 
  Funding spread  The difference between the general collateral rate (which refers to the rate applicable to a broad class of U.S.
Treasury issuances) and the specific collateral rate (which refers to the rate applicable to a specific type of security pledged as collateral, such as a municipal bond). Repurchase agreements and certain other secured financings are discounted
based on collateral curves. The curves are constructed as spreads over the corresponding overnight indexed swap ( OIS ) or LIBOR curves, with the short end of the curve representing spreads over the corresponding OIS curves and the long
end of the curve representing spreads over LIBOR. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the funding spread of an asset would result in a lower (higher) fair value.  
 
  Implied weighted average cost of capital ( WACC )  The WACC implied by the current value of equity in a discounted cash
flow model. The model assumes that the cash flow assumptions, including projections, are fully reflected in the current equity value, while the debt to equity ratio is held constant. The WACC theoretically represents the required rate of return to
debt and equity investors. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the Implied weighted cost of capital of an asset would result in a lower (higher) fair value.  

Interest rate curve  The term structure of interest rates (relationship between interest rates and the time to maturity) and a
market s measure of future interest rates at the time of observation. An interest rate curve is used to set interest rate and foreign exchange derivative cash flows and is a pricing input used in the discounting of any OTC derivative cash
flow. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the interest rate curve would result in an impact to the fair value, but the magnitude and direction
of the impact would depend on whether the Firm is long or short the exposure.  
 
  Volatility  The measure of the variability in possible returns for an instrument given how much that instrument changes in value
over time. Volatility is a pricing input for options, and, generally, the lower the volatility, the less risky the option. The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular option depends on a number of factors, including the nature of
the risk underlying that option ( e.g. , the volatility of a particular underlying equity security may be significantly different from that of a particular underlying commodity index), the tenor and the strike price of the option. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the volatility would result in an impact to the fair value, but the magnitude and direction of the
impact would depend on whether the Firm is long or short the exposure.  
 
  Volatility skew  The measure of the difference in implied volatility for options with identical underliers and expiry dates but with
different strikes. The implied volatility for an option with a strike price that is above or below the current price of an underlying asset will typically deviate from the implied volatility for an option with a strike price equal to the current
price of that same underlying asset. 
   
 In general, an increase (decrease) to the volatility skew would result in an impact to the fair value, but the magnitude and direction of
the impact would depend on whether the Firm is long or short the exposure.  

Fair Value of Investments Measured at NAV   
  Investments in Certain Funds Measured at NAV per Share       
     Private Equity Funds and Real Estate Funds    
  Private Equity Funds.       Funds that pursue multiple strategies, including leveraged buyouts, venture
capital, infrastructure growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific domestic or foreign geographic regions.

Real Estate Funds.       Funds that invest in real estate assets
such as commercial office buildings, retail properties, multi-family residential properties, developments or hotels. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific geographic domestic or foreign regions. 
 Investments in these funds generally are not redeemable due to the closed-ended nature of these funds. Instead, distributions from each fund
will be received as the underlying investments of the funds are disposed and monetized.        Nonredeemable Funds by Projected Distribution   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Hedge Funds    
  Hedge Funds.       Funds that pursue various investment strategies, including long-short equity, fixed
income/credit, event-driven and multi-strategy.     Restrictions.        Investments in hedge funds may be
subject to  lock-up  or gate provisions. A  lock-up  provision is a provision which provides that during a certain initial period, an investor may not make a withdrawal from
the fund. A gate provision restricts the amount of redemption that an investor can demand on any redemption date.     Hedge Funds Redemption Frequency   

1. 
   The remaining restriction period for these investments was primarily over three years.     
 The redemption notice periods for hedge funds were primarily greater than six months. Hedge fund investments representing approximately 20% of
the fair value cannot be redeemed as of December 31, 2016 because a gate provision has been imposed by the hedge fund manager primarily for indefinite periods.  
  Fair Value Option     The Firm elected the
fair value option for certain eligible instruments that are risk managed on a fair value basis to mitigate income statement volatility caused by measurement basis differences between the elected instruments and their associated risk management
transactions or to eliminate complexities of applying certain accounting models.        Earnings Impact of Instruments under the Fair Value Option   

1. 
   Gains (losses) in 2016 are mainly attributable to changes in foreign currency rates or interest rates or movements in
the reference price or index for short-term and long-term borrowings before the impact of related hedges. During 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) were recorded within OCI in the consolidated comprehensive income statements and, as such, are not included in this table. See Notes 2 and 15 for further information.

2. 
   In 2015 and 2014, Gains (losses) recorded in Trading revenues are principally attributable to DVA, with the respective
remainder attributable to changes in foreign currency rates or interest rates or movements in the reference price or index for primarily structured notes before the impact of related hedges.     
 The amounts in the previous table are included within Net revenues and do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments. In
addition to the amounts in the previous table, as discussed in Note 2, instruments within Trading assets or Trading liabilities are measured at fair value.  
  Gains (Losses) Due to Changes in Instrument-Specific Credit Risk       

1. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Fina  n  cial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded in OCI and when such gains (losses) are realized in Trading revenues. For 2015 and 2014, the realized and unrealized DVA gains (losses) are
recorded in Trading revenues. The cumulative  pre-tax  impact of changes in the Firm s DVA recognized in AOCI is an unrealized loss of $921 million at December 31, 2016. See Notes 2 and 15 for
further information.     

2. 
   Loans and other debt instrument-specific credit gains (losses) were determined by excluding the  non-credit  components of gains and losses, such as those due to changes in interest rates.     

3. 
   Gains (losses) on lending commitments were generally determined based on the difference between estimated expected
client yields and contractual yields at each respective  period-end.      

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Short-Term and Long-Term Borrowings Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   
   
    Net Difference of Contractual Principal Amount Over Fair Value   

1. 
   The majority of the difference between principal and fair value amounts for loans and other debt relates to distressed
debt positions purchased at amounts well below par.     

2. 
   Short-term and long-term borrowings do not include structured notes where the repayment of the initial principal amount
fluctuates based on changes in a reference price or index.

Fair Value of Loans in Nonaccrual Status   

The previous tables exclude  non-recourse  debt from consolidated VIEs, liabilities related to failed sales of financial assets, pledged commodities and other liabilities that have specified assets attributable to them.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair
Value on a  Non-Recurring  Basis       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. 
    Non-recurring  changes in the fair value of loans and lending commitments: held
for investment were calculated using the value of the underlying collateral; and held for sale were calculated using recently executed transactions, market price quotations, valuation models that incorporate market observable inputs where possible,
such as comparable loan or debt prices and credit default swap spread levels adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments, or default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable.

2. 
   Losses related to Other assets Other investments were determined using techniques that included discounted cash
flow models, methodologies that incorporate multiples of certain comparable companies and recently executed transactions. Included in these losses was a loss of approximately $35 million in 2016 in connection with the sale of solar investments
and impairments of the remaining unsold solar investments accounted for under the equity method.     

3. 
   Losses related to Other assets Premises, equipment and software costs were determined using techniques that
included a default recovery analysis and recently executed transactions. Included in these losses was an impairment charge of approximately $31 million in 2016 in connection with an oil terminal facility to reduce the carrying value to its
estimated fair value less costs to sell.     

4. 
   Losses related to Intangible assets were determined using techniques that included discounted cash flow models and
methodologies that incorporate multiples of certain comparable companies.     

5. 
   Losses related to Other assets were determined primarily using a default recovery analysis.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Valuation Techniques for Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value   

Asset and Liability / Valuation Technique   

Securities purchased under agreements to resell/Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Securities borrowed/Securities
loaned and Other secured financings     Typically longer dated instruments for which the fair value is
determined using standard cash flow discounting methodology.    The inputs to the valuation include contractual
cash flows and collateral funding spreads, which are estimated using various benchmarks and interest rate yield curves.   

Investment securities HTM securities  
  Fair value is determined using quoted market prices.   

Customer and other receivables  
  For the portion of the customer and other receivables where fair value does not equal carrying value, the fair
value is determined using collateral information, historical resolution and recovery rates and employee termination data. The cash flow is then discounted using a market observable spread over LIBOR.   

Loans  
  The fair value of consumer and residential real estate loans and lending commitments where position-specific
external price data are not observable is determined based on the credit risks of the borrower using a probability of default and loss given default method, discounted at the estimated external cost of funding level. 
  The fair value of corporate loans and lending commitments is determined using recently executed transactions,
market price quotations (where observable), implied yields from comparable debt, market observable credit default swap spread levels along with proprietary valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are
unobservable.   

Long-term borrowings  
  The fair value is generally determined based on transactional data or third-party pricing for identical or
comparable instruments, when available. Where position-specific external prices are not observable, fair value is determined based on current interest rates and credit spreads for debt instruments with similar terms and maturity.   

The carrying values of the remaining assets and liabilities not measured at fair value in the following tables approximate fair value due
to their short-term nature.   
    Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. 
   Accrued interest, fees, and dividend receivables and payables where carrying value approximates fair value have been
excluded.     

2. 
   Amounts include loans measured at fair value on a  non-recurring  basis.

At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, notional amounts of approximately
$97.4 billion and $99.5 billion, respectively, of the Firm s lending commitments were held for investment and held for sale, which are not included in the previous table. The estimated fair value of such lending commitments was a
liability of $1,241 million and $2,172 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Had these commitments been accounted for at fair value, $973 million would have been categorized in Level 2 and
$268 million in Level 3 at December 31, 2016, and $1,791 million would have been categorized in Level 2 and $381 million in Level 3 at December 31, 2015.  
 The previous tables exclude certain financial instruments such as equity method investments and all
 non-financial  assets and liabilities such as the value of the long-term relationships with the Firm s deposit customers.

4. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   
 The Firm trades and makes markets globally in listed futures, OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other
things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and  non-investment  grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indices, asset-backed
security indices, property indices, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, and real estate loan products. The Firm uses these instruments for market-making, foreign currency exposure management, and asset and liability management.  
 The Firm manages its market-making positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of
risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). The Firm
manages the market risk associated with its market-making activities on a Firm-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Derivative Assets and Liabilities       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. 
   Notional amounts include gross notionals related to open long and short futures contracts of $2,088.0 billion and
$332.4 billion, respectively. The unsettled fair value on these futures contracts (excluded from this table) of $784 million and $174 million is included in Customer and other receivables and Customer and other payables, respectively,
in the consolidated balance sheets.     

2. 
   Amounts include transactions that are either not subject to master netting agreements or collateral agreements or are
subject to such agreements but the Firm has not determined the agreements to be legally enforceable as follows: $3.7 billion of derivative assets and $3.5 billion of derivative liabilities at December 31, 2016 and $4.2 billion of
derivative assets and $5.2 billion of derivative liabilities at December 31, 2015.     

3. 
   Amounts relate to master netting agreements and collateral agreements that have been determined by the Firm to be
legally enforceable in the event of default but where certain other criteria are not met in accordance with applicable offsetting accounting guidance.     

4. 
   Notional amounts include gross notionals related to open long and short futures contracts of $1,009.5 billion and
$653.0 billion, respectively. The unsettled fair value on these futures contracts (excluded from this table) of $1,145 million and $437 million is included in Customer and other receivables and Customer and other payables,
respectively, in the consolidated balance sheets.       For information related to offsetting of certain collateralized
transactions, see Note 6.     Gains (Losses) on Fair Value Hedges   

Gains (Losses) on Effective Portion of Net Investment Hedges   

Trading Revenues by
Product Type       

1. 
   Dividend income is included within equity security and index contracts.     

2. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI in the consolidated comprehensive income statements. In 2015 and 2014, the DVA gains (losses) were recorded within Trading revenues in the
consolidated income statements. See Notes 2 and 15 for further information.

The previous table summarizes gains and losses included in Trading revenues in the consolidated
income statements from trading activities. These activities include revenues related to derivative and  non-derivative  financial instruments. The Firm generally utilizes financial instruments across a variety
of product types in connection with their market-making and related risk management strategies. Accordingly, the trading revenues presented in the previous table are not representative of the manner in which the Firm manages its business activities
and are prepared in a manner similar to the presentation of trading revenues for regulatory reporting purposes.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

OTC Derivative Products Trading Assets   
  Counterparty Credit Rating and Remaining Maturity of OTC Derivative Assets       

1. 
   Fair values shown represent the Firm s net exposure to counterparties related to its OTC derivative products.

2. 
   Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity
categories. Receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of
offset exists.     

3. 
   Fair value is shown, net of collateral received (primarily cash and U.S. government and agency securities).

4. 
   Obligor credit ratings are determined internally by the Credit Risk Management Department.     
  Credit Risk-Related Contingencies   
    
  In connection with certain OTC trading agreements, the Firm may be required to provide
additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a credit rating downgrade of the Firm.  
 The following table presents the aggregate fair value of certain derivative contracts that contain credit risk-related contingent features
that are in a net liability position for which the Firm has posted collateral in the normal course of business.     Net Derivative Liabilities and Collateral
Posted          
   The additional collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a future credit rating
downgrade vary by

contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Global Ratings
( S P ).   The following table shows the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or exchange and clearing organizations in the event of  one-notch  or  two-notch  downgrade scenarios based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers.     
  Incremental Collateral or Termination Payments upon Potential Future Ratings Downgrade   

1. 
   Amounts include $1,231 million related to bilateral arrangements between the Firm and other parties where upon the
downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver collateral to the other party. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are used by the Firm to manage the risk of counterparty downgrades.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Credit Derivatives and Other Credit Contracts   
 The Firm enters into credit derivatives, principally through credit default swaps, under which it receives or provides protection against the
risk of default on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity or entities. A majority of the Firm s counterparties for these derivatives are banks, broker-dealers, and insurance and other financial institutions.  
  Protection Sold and Purchased with Credit Default Swaps       

For single name and  non-tranched  index and basket credit
default swaps, the Firm has purchased protection with a notional amount of approximately $389.2 billion and $577.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, compared with a notional amount of approximately
$395.5 billion and $619.5 billion (included in the following tables) at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, of credit protection sold with identical underlying reference obligations.  
 The purchase of credit protection does not represent the sole manner in which the Firm risk manages its exposure to credit derivatives. The
Firm manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, which include managing the credit and correlation risk across single name,  non-tranched  indices and
baskets, tranched indices and baskets, and cash positions. Aggregate market risk limits have been established for credit derivatives, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Firm may also recover amounts on the
underlying reference obligation delivered to the Firm under credit default swaps where credit protection was sold.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Credit Ratings of Reference Obligation and Maturities of Credit Protection Sold   

1. 
   Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

2. 
   In order to provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of the CDS, a breakdown of CDS
based on the Firm s internal credit ratings by investment grade and  non-investment  grade is provided. Internal credit ratings serve as the Credit Risk Management Department s assessment of credit
risk and the basis for a comprehensive credit limits framework used to control credit risk. The Firm uses quantitative models and judgment to estimate the various risk parameters related to each obligor.     
    
    Single Name Credit Default Swaps    
 A credit default swap protects the buyer against the loss of principal on a bond or loan in case of a default by the issuer. The protection
buyer pays a periodic premium (generally quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. The Firm, in turn, performs under a credit default swap if a credit event as defined under the contract occurs. Typical credit events
include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay and restructuring of the obligations of the referenced entity.  
   Index and Basket Credit Default Swaps    
 Index and basket credit default swaps are products where credit protection is provided on a portfolio of single name credit default swaps.
Generally, in the event of a default on

one of the underlying names, the Firm pays a pro rata portion of the total notional amount of the credit default swap.  
 The Firm also enters into tranched index and basket credit default swaps where credit protection is provided on a particular portion of the
portfolio loss distribution. The most junior tranches cover initial defaults, and once losses exceed the notional of the tranche, they are passed on to the next most senior tranche in the capital structure.  
   Credit Protection Sold through CLNs and CDOs    
 The Firm has invested in credit-linked notes ( CLNs ) and CDOs, which are hybrid instruments containing embedded derivatives, in
which credit protection has been sold to the issuer of the note. If there is a credit event of a reference entity underlying the instrument, the principal balance of the note may not be repaid in full to the Firm.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

5. Investment Securities   
  AFS and HTM Securities       

1. 
   U.S. agency securities consist mainly of agency-issued debt, agency mortgage pass-through pool securities and
collateralized mortgage obligations.     

2. 
   Amounts are backed by a guarantee from the U.S. Department of Education of at least 95% of the principal balance and
interest on such loans.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Investment Securities in an Unrealized Loss Position   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

The Firm believes there are no securities in an unrealized loss position that are
other-than-temporarily-impaired at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 for the reasons discussed herein.    For AFS debt
securities, the Firm does not intend to sell the securities and is not likely to be required to sell the securities prior to recovery of amortized cost basis. For AFS and HTM debt securities, the securities have not experienced credit losses as the
net unrealized losses reported in the previous table are primarily due to higher interest rates since those securities were purchased.  
 Additionally, the Firm does not expect to experience a credit loss based on consideration of the relevant information (as discussed in Note
2), including for U.S. government and agency securities, the existence of an explicit and implicit guarantee provided by the U.S. government. The risk of credit loss on securities in an unrealized loss position is considered minimal because the
Firm s agency securities, as well as ABS, CMBS and CLOs, are highly rated and because corporate bonds are all investment grade.    For
AFS equity securities, the Firm has the intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.  
 See Note 13 for additional information on securities issued by VIEs, including U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities,  non-agency  CMBS, auto loan ABS, CLO and FFELP student loan ABS.     Investment Securities by Contractual Maturity   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Gross Realized Gains and Losses on Sales of AFS Securities   
   
   Gross realized gains and losses are recognized in Other revenues in the consolidated income statements.  
    6. Collateralized Transactions   
 The Firm enters into securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed and
securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers  needs and to finance its inventory positions.  
 The Firm manages credit exposure arising from such transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting agreements and
collateral agreements with counterparties that provide the Firm, in the event of a counterparty default (such as bankruptcy or a counterparty s failure to pay or perform), with the right to net a counterparty s rights and obligations under
such agreement and liquidate and set off collateral held by the Firm against the net amount owed by the counterparty.    The Firm s
policy is generally to take possession of securities purchased or borrowed in connection with securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed transactions, respectively, and to receive cash and securities delivered under
securities sold under agreements to repurchase or securities loaned transactions (with rights of rehypothecation). In certain cases, the Firm may be permitted to post collateral to a third-party custodian under a
 tri-party  arrangement that enables the Firm to take control of such collateral in the event of a counterparty default.  
 The Firm also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable or payable, including accrued
interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral as provided under the applicable agreement to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized or the return of excess collateral.  
 The risk related to a decline in the market value of collateral (pledged or received) is managed by setting appropriate market-based haircuts.
Increases in collateral margin calls on secured financing due to market value declines may be mitigated by increases in collateral margin calls on securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed transactions with similar
quality collateral. Additionally, the Firm may request lower quality collateral pledged be replaced

with higher quality collateral through collateral substitution rights in the underlying agreements.  
 The Firm actively manages its secured financing in a manner that reduces the potential refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid
assets. The Firm considers the quality of collateral when negotiating collateral eligibility with counterparties, as defined by its fundability criteria. The Firm utilizes shorter-term secured financing for highly liquid assets and has established
longer tenor limits for less liquid assets, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption.     Offsetting of Certain Collateralized
Transactions       

1. 
   Amounts include transactions that are either not subject to master netting agreements or are subject to such agreements
but the Firm has not determined the agreements to be legally enforceable as follows: $7.8 billion of Securities purchased under agreements to resell, $2.6 billion of Securities borrowed, $6.5 billion of Securities sold under
agreements to repurchase and $0.2 billion of Securities loaned at December 31, 2016 and $2.6 billion of Securities purchased under agreements to resell, $3.0 billion of Securities borrowed and $4.9 billion of Securities sold
under agreements to repurchase at December 31, 2015.     

2. 
   Amounts relate to master netting agreements that have been determined by the Firm to be legally enforceable in the
event of default but where certain other criteria are not met in accordance with applicable offsetting accounting guidance.     
 For information related to offsetting of derivatives, see Note 4.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Maturities and Collateral Pledged   
  Gross Secured Financing Balances by Remaining Contractual Maturity       

1. 
   Amounts are presented on a gross basis, prior to netting in the consolidated balance sheets.

Gross Secured Financing Balances by Class of Collateral Pledged   

1. 
   Amounts are presented on a gross basis, prior to netting in the consolidated balance sheets.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Trading Assets Pledged   
 The Firm pledges its trading assets to collateralize securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities loaned and other secured
financings. Pledged financial instruments that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Trading assets (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the
carrying value of Trading assets that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties, where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral, was $41.4 billion and $35.0 billion, respectively.  
  Collateral Received     The Firm receives
collateral in the form of securities in connection with securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed and derivative transactions, customer margin loans and securities-based lending. In many cases, the Firm is permitted to
sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure securities sold under agreements to repurchase, to enter into securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short
positions.    The Firm additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with certain   securities-for-securities   transactions. In instances where the Firm is the lender and permitted to sell or repledge these securities, it reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related
obligation to return the collateral included in Trading assets and Trading liabilities, respectively, in its consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the total fair value of financial instruments received as
collateral where the Firm is permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $561.2 billion and $522.6 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $430.9 billion and
$398.1 billion, respectively.     Concentration Risk   
 The Firm is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities, loans or commitments to purchase
securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry.
   Trading assets owned by the Firm include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments
(principally the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Brazil and Japan), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 8% and 7% of the Firm s total assets at

December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the Firm for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together
represented approximately 18% and 15% of the Firm s total assets at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, consists of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign government
obligations.    Positions taken and commitments made by the Firm, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments made
in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including  non-investment 
grade issuers. In addition, the Firm may originate and/or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of
mortgages. Such terms and features may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high   loan-to-value   ratios.  
  Customer Margin Lending     The Firm
engages in margin lending to clients that allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities. Margin loans are included within Customer and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets. Under these agreements and
transactions, the Firm receives collateral, including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activities are
collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Firm. The Firm monitors required margin levels and established credit terms daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions,
when necessary.    Margin loans are extended on a demand basis and are not committed facilities. Factors considered in the review of margin
loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity
of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies to reduce risk.    Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with
respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. For these transactions, adherence to the Firm s collateral
policies significantly limits its credit exposure in the event of a customer default. The Firm may request additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary,

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold but not delivered from customers. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the amounts related to margin
lending were approximately $24.4 billion and $25.3 billion, respectively.    Other secured financings include the liabilities
related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Firm is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, and certain equity-linked notes ( ELN ) and other secured
borrowings. These liabilities are generally payable from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Trading assets (see Notes 11 and 13).     Cash and
Securities Deposited with Clearing Organizations or Segregated       

1. 
   Securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements are
sourced from Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Trading assets in the consolidated balance sheets.         
 7. Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses      Loans   
 The Firm s loan portfolio consists of the following:      

Corporate .    Corporate loans primarily include commercial and industrial lending
used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity, event-driven loans and asset-backed lending products. Event-driven loans support client merger, acquisition, recapitalization, or project finance activities. Corporate loans are
structured as revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities, term loans and bridge loans. Risk factors considered in determining the allowance for corporate loans include the borrower s financial strength, seniority of the loan,
collateral type, volatility of collateral value, debt cushion, covenants and counterparty type.         

Consumer .    Consumer loans include unsecured loans and securities-based lending
that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying securities or refinancing margin debt. The majority of

consumer loans are structured as revolving lines of credit and letter of credit facilities and are primarily offered through the Firm s Portfolio Loan Account ( PLA ) and Liquidity
Access Line ( LAL ) programs. The allowance methodology for unsecured loans considers the specific attributes of the loan as well as the borrower s source of repayment. The allowance methodology for securities-based lending considers
the collateral type underlying the loan ( e.g. , diversified securities, concentrated securities or restricted stock).         

Residential Real Estate .    Residential real estate loans mainly include  non-conforming  loans and home equity lines of credit. The allowance methodology for  non-conforming  residential mortgage loans considers several factors, including, but not
limited to,   loan-to-value   ratio, FICO score, home price index and delinquency status. The methodology for home equity lines of credit considers credit limits and
utilization rates in addition to the factors considered for  non-conforming  residential mortgages.         

Wholesale Real Estate .    Wholesale real estate loans include owner-occupied loans
and income-producing loans. The principal risk factors for determining the allowance for wholesale real estate loans are the underlying collateral type,   loan-to-value  
ratio and debt service ratio.        Loans Held for Investment and Held for Sale   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

See Note 3 for further information regarding Loans and lending commitments held at fair value.  
   Credit Quality      The Credit Risk
Management Department evaluates new obligors before credit transactions are initially approved and at least annually thereafter for corporate and wholesale real estate loans. For corporate loans, credit evaluations typically involve the
evaluation of financial statements; assessment of leverage, liquidity, capital strength, asset composition and quality; market capitalization and access to capital markets; cash flow projections and debt service requirements; and the adequacy of
collateral, if applicable. The Credit Risk Management Department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry dynamics, obligor s management and other factors that could affect an obligor s risk profile. For wholesale real
estate loans, the credit evaluation is focused on property and transaction metrics, including property type,   loan-to-value   ratio, occupancy levels, debt service ratio,
prevailing capitalization rates and market dynamics. For residential real estate and consumer loans, the initial credit evaluation typically includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor s income, net worth, liquidity, collateral,   loan-to-value   ratio and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring for residential real estate loans is performed at the portfolio level. Consumer loan collateral
values are monitored on an ongoing basis.    The Firm utilizes the following credit quality indicators, which are consistent with U.S.
banking regulators  definitions of criticized exposures, in its credit monitoring process for loans held for investment:      

Pass .    A credit exposure rated pass has a continued expectation of timely
repayment, all obligations of the borrower are current, and the obligor complies with material terms and conditions of the lending agreement.         

Special Mention .    Extensions of credit that have potential weakness that deserve
management s close attention and, if left uncorrected, may, at some future date, result in the deterioration of the repayment prospects or collateral position.     

Substandard .    Obligor has a well-defined weakness that jeopardizes the repayment
of the debt and has a high probability of payment default with the distinct possibility that

the Firm will sustain some loss if noted deficiencies are not corrected.         

Doubtful .    Inherent weakness in the exposure makes the collection or repayment in
full, based on existing facts, conditions and circumstances, highly improbable, and the amount of loss is uncertain.         

Loss .    Extensions of credit classified as loss are considered uncollectible and
are charged off.       Loans considered as doubtful or loss are considered impaired. Substandard loans are regularly reviewed
for impairment. When a loan is impaired, the impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan
or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. For further information, see Note 2.     Loans Held for Investment before Allowance by
Credit Quality       
     
    Impaired Loans Before Allowance by Product Type       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

1. 
   At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, no allowance was recorded for these loans as the present value of
the expected future cash flows (or, alternatively, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral held) equaled or exceeded the carrying value.     

2. 
   The impaired loans unpaid principal balance differs from the aggregate amount of impaired loan balances with and
without allowance due to various factors, including charge-offs and net deferred loan fees or costs.

Select Loan Information by Region       
   EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa

Allowance for Credit Losses on Lending Activities   
  Allowance for Loan Losses       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Allowance for Lending Commitments       

1. 
   Reduction related to loans of $492 million that were transferred to loans held for sale during 2016.

2. 
   Loan balances are gross of the allowance for loan losses, and lending commitments are gross of the allowance for
lending commitments.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Troubled Debt Restructurings    
 At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the impaired loans and lending commitments classified as held for investment include
troubled debt restructurings of $67.4 million and $44.0 million related to loans, respectively, and $13.9 million and $34.8 million related to lending commitments, respectively, within corporate loans. At December 31, 2016
the Firm did not record an allowance related to these troubled debt restructurings. At December 31, 2015, an allowance of $5.1 million was recorded. These restructurings typically include modifications of interest rates, collateral
requirements, other loan covenants and payment extensions.     Employee Loans   
 Employee loans are granted in conjunction with a program established in the Wealth Management business segment to retain and recruit certain
employees. These loans are recorded in Customer and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets. These loans are full recourse, generally require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from 1 to 12 years. The Firm establishes an
allowance for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable, which is recorded in Compensation and benefits expense. At December 31, 2016, the Firm had $4,715 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of approximately
$89 million. At December 31, 2015, the Firm had $4,923 million of employee loans, net of an allowance of approximately $108 million.

8. Equity Method Investments   
  Overview     The Firm has investments
accounted for under the equity method of accounting (see Note 1) of $2,837 million and $3,144 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, included in Other Assets Other investments in the consolidated
balance sheets. Income (loss) from equity method investments was $(79) million, $114 million and $156 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is included in Other revenues in the consolidated income statements.  
  Japanese Securities Joint Venture     The
Firm holds a 40% voting interest ( 40% interest ) and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) holds a 60% voting interest in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. ( MUMSS ). The Firm accounts for its
equity method investment in MUMSS within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Firm recorded income from its 40% interest of $93 million, $220 million and $224 million, respectively, within
Other revenues in the consolidated income statements. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the book value of this investment was $1,581 million and $1,457 million, respectively. The book value of this investee exceeds the
Firm s share of net assets, reflecting equity method intangible assets and equity method goodwill.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Summarized Financial Data for MUMSS       
     
   In addition to MUMSS, the Firm held other equity method investments that were not individually significant.
      9. Goodwill and Intangible Assets   
  Goodwill     The Firm completed its annual
goodwill impairment testing as of July 1, 2016 and July 1, 2015. The Firm s impairment testing for each period did not indicate any goodwill impairment as each of the Firm s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was
substantially in excess of its carrying value.     Goodwill Rollforward       

Intangible Assets       
    Gross Amortizable Intangible Assets by Type       
   Amortization expense associated with intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $298 million per
year over the next five years.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Net Amortizable Intangible Assets Rollforward   

1. 
   Includes a $159 million net increase in Intangible assets related to a Commodities division transaction, which
also resulted in a gain of $78 
million recorded in Other revenues in the consolidated income statements.          10. Deposits   
  Deposits       

2. 
   Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).

3. 
   Deposits were primarily held in the U.S.

Interest bearing deposits at December 31, 2016 included $154,529 million of savings
deposits payable upon demand and $1,204 million of time deposits maturing in 2017 and $43 million of time deposits maturing in 2018.  
 The vast majority of deposits in MSBNA and MSPBNA (collectively,  U.S. Bank Subsidiaries ) are sourced from the Firm s retail
brokerage accounts.       11. Borrowings and Other Secured Financings   
  Short-Term Borrowings     At
December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Firm had $941 million and $2,173 million, respectively, of Short-term borrowings. These borrowings included primarily structured notes, bank loans and bank notes with original
maturities of 12 months or less. Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3).

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Long-Term Borrowings   
  Maturities and Terms of Long-Term Borrowings       
   N/M Not Meaningful  

2. 
   Variable rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including LIBOR and federal funds
rates. Amounts include borrowings that are linked to equity, credit, commodity or other indices.     

3. 
   Amounts include a decrease of approximately $0.7 billion at December 31, 2016 to the carrying amounts of
certain of the long-term borrowings for which the fair value option was elected (see Note 3).     

4. 
   Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and  non-U.S.  dollar
interest rates and excludes financial instruments for which the fair value option was elected. Virtually all of the variable rate notes issued by subsidiaries are carried at fair value so a weighted average coupon is not meaningful.

Long-Term Borrowings by Type       
   During 2016 and 2015, the Firm issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $43.6 billion and
$34.2 billion, respectively, and approximately $30.4 billion and $27.3 billion, respectively, in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or retired.  
 Certain senior debt securities are denominated in various  non-U.S.  dollar currencies and may be
structured to provide a return that is linked to equity, credit, commodity or other indices ( e.g. , the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be callable by the Firm or extendible at the option of holders of the senior
debt securities.    Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put the notes aggregated $3,156 million at
December 31, 2016 and $2,902 million at December 31, 2015. In addition, in certain circumstances, certain purchasers may be entitled to cause the repurchase of the notes. The aggregated value of notes subject to these arrangements was
$1,117 million at December 31, 2016 and $650 million at December 31, 2015. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures generally are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Firm or

its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.    The weighted
average maturity of long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.9 years and 6.1 years at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.  
   Trust Preferred Securities    
 During 2016, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V and Morgan Stanley Capital
Trust VIII redeemed all of their issued and outstanding Capital Securities pursuant to the optional redemption provisions provided in the respective governing documents. In the aggregate, $2.8 billion was redeemed. The Firm concurrently
redeemed the related underlying junior subordinated debentures.    During 2015, Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts VI and VII redeemed all of
their issued and outstanding 6.60% Capital Securities, respectively, and the Firm concurrently redeemed the related underlying junior subordinated debentures.  
   Senior Debt Structured Borrowings    
 The Firm s index-linked, equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption
values are linked to the performance of a specific index ( e.g.,  Standard   Poor s 500), a basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure from such
instruments, the Firm has entered into various swap  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

contracts and purchased options that effectively convert the borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. The Firm generally carries the entire structured borrowings at fair value. The
swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are derivatives and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related to the notes and economic hedges are reported in Trading revenues. See Note 3 for further
information on structured borrowings.      Subordinated Debt    
 Subordinated notes included in long-term borrowings have a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.5% at both December 31, 2016 and
December 31, 2015. Maturities of subordinated notes range from 2022 to 2027.     Asset and Liability Management   
 In general, other than securities inventories financed by secured funding sources, the majority of the Firm s assets are financed with a
combination of deposits, short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. The Firm uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest
rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These swaps effectively convert certain of the Firm s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for
 non-U.S.  dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Firm has entered into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations.  
 The Firm s use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate.  
  Rates for Long-Term Borrowings at Period End       

1. 
   Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and non-U.S. dollar interest rates and excludes financial
instruments for which the fair value option was elected.        Other Secured Financings   
 Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than
sales, consolidated VIEs where the Firm is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, pledged commodities, certain equity-linked notes and other secured borrowings. See Note 13 for further information on other secured financings related to VIEs and
securitization activities.  

Other Secured Financings by Type       

2. 
   For more information on failed sales, see Note 13.     
  Secured Financings with Original Maturities Greater than One Year by Maturity and Rate Type   

1. 
   Variable rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of indices, including LIBOR. Amounts include borrowings that
are equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index.     

2. 
   Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing U.S. and  non-U.S.  dollar
interest rates and excludes secured financings that are linked to  non-interest  indices and for which fair value option was elected.     
  Failed Sales by Maturity       
   For more information on failed sales, see Note 13.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

12. Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies   
    
   Commitments   
 The Firm s commitments are summarized in the following table by years to maturity. Since commitments associated with these instruments
may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.     Commitments   

1. 
   Due to the nature of the Firm s obligations under the commitments, these amounts include certain commitments
participated to third parties of $5.6 billion.     

2. 
   Represents forward-starting securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed agreements, of
which $68.8 billion settled within three business days.         Types of Commitments    
  Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees.     The Firm has outstanding letters of credit and other financial
guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Firm s counterparties. The Firm is contingently liable for these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which

are primarily used to provide collateral for securities and commodities borrowed and to satisfy various margin requirements in lieu of depositing cash or securities with these counterparties.
    Investment Activities .      The Firm sponsors several
 non-consolidated  investment management funds for third-party investors where it typically acts as general partner of, and investment advisor to, these funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the
capital of such funds, with subscribing third-party investors contributing the majority. The Firm s employees, including its senior officers as well as the Firm s Board of Directors (the  Board ), may participate on the same
terms and conditions as other investors in certain of these funds that the Firm sponsors primarily for client investment, except that the Firm may waive or lower applicable fees and charges for its employees. The Firm has contractual capital
commitments, guarantees and counterparty arrangements with respect to these investment management funds.     Lending
Commitments .      Lending commitments represent the notional amount of legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients for different types of loan transactions. For syndications led by the Firm, the lending
commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that the Firm participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by
the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Firm expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank. Due to the nature of the Firm s obligations under the commitments, these amounts include certain commitments
participated to third parties. See Note 7 for further information.     Forward-Starting Secured Financing
Receivables .      The Firm has entered into forward-starting securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2016 and settle
subsequent to  period-end)  that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations.  
  Underwriting Commitments .      The Firm provides underwriting commitments in connection with its capital
raising sources to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Premises and Equipment.     The Firm has  non-cancelable  operating leases covering premises and equipment. At December 31, 2016, future minimum rental commitments under such leases (net of sublease commitments, principally on office rentals) were as
follows:     Operating Premises Leases       

The total of minimum rental income to be received in the future under  non-cancelable  operating subleases at December 31, 2016 was $22 million.    Occupancy lease
agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense was $689 million, $705 million and
$715 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

Guarantees   
  Obligations under Guarantee Arrangements at December 31, 2016       

1. 
   Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.
For further information on derivative contracts, see Note 4.     

2. 
   These amounts include certain issued standby letters of credit participated to third parties totaling $0.9 billion
due to the nature of the Firm s obligations under these arrangements.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

The Firm has obligations under certain guarantee arrangements, including contracts and
indemnification agreements, that contingently require the Firm to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence
or  non-occurrence  of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the Firm to make payments to
the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  
   Types of Guarantees    
  Derivative Contracts.         Certain derivative contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee,
including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps (see Note 4 regarding credit derivatives in which the Firm has sold credit protection to the counterparty). The Firm has disclosed information regarding all
derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee and has used the notional amount as the maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and written foreign currency options.
   In certain situations, collateral may be held by the Firm for those contracts that meet the definition of a guarantee. Generally, the
Firm sets collateral requirements by counterparty so that the collateral covers various transactions and products and is not allocated specifically to individual contracts. Also, the Firm may recover amounts related to the underlying asset delivered
to the Firm under the derivative contract.    The Firm records derivative contracts at fair value. Aggregate market risk limits have been
established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Firm also manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into
offsetting economic hedge positions. The Firm believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure.  
  Standby Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees Issued.     In connection with its corporate lending
business and other corporate activities, the Firm provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its
obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation. A majority of the Firm s standby letters of credit are provided on behalf of counterparties that are investment grade.

Market Value Guarantees.     Market value guarantees are issued to
guarantee timely payment of a specified return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. These guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits
expected to be generated by a fund. From time to time, the Firm may also guarantee return of principal invested, potentially including a specified rate of return, to fund investors.  
  Liquidity Facilities.     The Firm has entered into liquidity facilities with special purpose entities
( SPEs ) and other counterparties, whereby the Firm is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Firm acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone municipal bonds
in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the holders of the individual bonds, respectively, have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Firm on specified dates at a specified price. The Firm often may
have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities, as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors. Primarily all of the underlying assets in the SPEs are
investment grade. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender option bond trusts are classified as derivatives.     Whole Loan Sales
Guarantees  .         The Firm has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain whole loan sales. Under certain circumstances, the Firm may be required to
repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties are breached. The Firm maximum potential payout related to such representations and warranties is equal to the current unpaid principal
balance ( UPB ) of such loans. The Firm has information on the current UPB only when it services the loans. The amount included in the previous table for the maximum potential payout of $23.3 billion includes the current UPB when
known of $4.4 billion and the UPB at the time of sale of $18.9 billion when the current UPB is not known. The UPB at the time of the sale of all loans covered by these representations and warranties was approximately
$42.7 billion. The related liability primarily relates to sales of loans to the federal mortgage agencies.     Securitization
Representations and Warranties.         As part of the Firm s Institutional Securities business segment s securitization and related activities, the Firm has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible
for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Firm. The extent and nature of the representations and warranties, if any, vary among different securitizations. Under certain
circumstances, the Firm may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

related to such assets if such representations and warranties are breached. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Firm could be required to make would be equal to the current
outstanding balances of, or losses associated with, the assets subject to breaches of such representations and warranties. The amount included in the previous table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB where known and
the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known.    At December 31, 2016, there were approximately
$147.9 billion of outstanding RMBS primarily containing U.S. residential loans that the Firm had sponsored between 2004 and 2016. Of that amount, the Firm made representations and warranties relating to approximately $47.0 billion of loans
and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21.0 billion of loans. At December 31, 2016, the Firm had reserved $103 million in its
consolidated financial statements for payments owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties made in connection with these residential mortgages. At December 31, 2016, the current UPB for all the residential assets subject
to such representations and warranties was approximately $11.6 billion, and the cumulative losses associated with U.S. RMBS were approximately $15.2 billion. The Firm did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible for, the
representations and warranties made by third-party sellers on approximately $79.9 billion of residential loans that it securitized during that time period.  
 The Firm also made representations and warranties in connection with its role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that it
securitized in CMBS. At December 31, 2016, there were outstanding Firm sponsored CMBS in which the Firm had originated and placed between 2004 and 2016, U.S. and  non-U.S.  commercial mortgage loans of
approximately $37.3 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2016, the Firm had not accrued any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for payments owed as a result of breach of representations and warranties
made in connection with these commercial mortgages. At December 31, 2016, the current UPB for all U.S. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $31.7 billion. For the
 non-U.S.  commercial mortgage loans, the amount included in the previous table for the maximum potential payout includes the current UPB when known of $0.8 billion and the UPB at the time of sale of
$0.4 billion when the current UPB is not known.     General Partner Guarantees.     As a general partner in
certain investment management funds, the Firm receives certain distributions from the partnerships related to achieving certain return hurdles according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Firm may be required to

return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in the various partnership agreements, subject
to certain limitations.     Other Guarantees and Indemnities   
 In the normal course of business, the Firm provides guarantees and indemnifications in a variety of transactions. These provisions generally
are standard contractual terms. Certain of these guarantees and indemnifications related to indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees and merger and acquisition guarantees are described below:  

Indemnities.     The Firm provides standard indemnities to counterparties for
certain contingent exposures and taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These
indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws, a change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Firm to terminate the agreement
upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Firm could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated.     

Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees.     The Firm is a member of various U.S.
and  non-U.S.  exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or derivative contracts. Associated with its membership, the Firm may be required to pay a certain amount as determined by the
exchange or the clearinghouse in case of a default of any of its members or pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member that may default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. While the rules governing
different exchange or clearinghouse memberships and the forms of these guarantees may vary, in general the Firm s obligations under these rules would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its resources.
      In addition, some clearinghouse rules require members to assume a proportionate share of losses
resulting from the clearinghouse s investment of guarantee fund contributions and initial margin, and of other losses unrelated to the default of a clearing member, if such losses exceed the specified resources allocated for such purpose by the
clearinghouse.    The maximum potential payout under these rules cannot be estimated. The Firm has not recorded any
contingent liability in its consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Merger and Acquisition Guarantees.     The Firm may, from time to time, in its role
as investment banking advisor be required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the regulating authorities, the Firm provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and
acquisition transaction has or will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the event the acquirer s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction.
These arrangements generally cover the time frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The Firm believes the likelihood of any payment by the Firm under these arrangements is remote
given the level of its due diligence with its role as investment banking advisor.       In addition, in the ordinary course
of business, the Firm guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees
generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the Firm s subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the
consolidated financial statements.     Contingencies   
  Legal .    In the normal course of business, the Firm has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various
legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for
substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. These actions have
included, but are not limited to, residential mortgage and credit-crisis related matters.    Over the last several years, the level of
litigation and investigatory activity (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, the Firm expects that it will continue to be the subject of
elevated claims for damages and other relief and, while the Firm has identified below any individual proceedings where the Firm believes a material loss to be reasonably possible and reasonably estimable, there can be no assurance that material
losses will not be incurred from claims that have not yet been asserted or are not yet determined to be probable or possible and reasonably estimable losses.

The Firm contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter.
Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Firm can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Firm accrues the estimated loss by a
charge to income. The Firm incurred legal expenses of $263 million in 2016, $563 million in 2015 and $3,364 million in 2014. The Firm s future legal expenses may fluctuate from period to period, given the current environment
regarding government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Firm.    In many
proceedings and investigations, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. In addition, even where a loss is possible or an exposure to loss exists in excess
of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously recognized loss contingency, it is not always possible to reasonably estimate the size of the possible loss or range of loss.  
 For certain legal proceedings and investigations, the Firm cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and
investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or governmental entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved,
including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal
questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional range of loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation.  
 For certain other legal proceedings and investigations, the Firm can estimate reasonably possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or
ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued, but does not believe, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that such losses will have a material adverse effect on the Firm s consolidated financial statements
as a whole, other than the matters referred to in the following paragraphs.    On July 15, 2010, China Development Industrial Bank
( CDIB ) filed a complaint against the Firm, styled  China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan Stanley       Co. Incorporated et al ., which is pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York
County ( Supreme Court of NY ). The complaint relates to a $275 million credit default swap referencing the super senior portion of the STACK  2006-1  CDO. The complaint asserts claims for common
law  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

fraud, fraudulent inducement and fraudulent concealment and alleges that the Firm misrepresented the risks of the STACK  2006-1  CDO to CDIB, and that the
Firm knew that the assets backing the CDO were of poor quality when it entered into the credit default swap with CDIB. The complaint seeks compensatory damages related to the approximately $228 million that CDIB alleges it has already lost
under the credit default swap, rescission of CDIB s obligation to pay an additional $12 million, punitive damages, equitable relief, fees and costs. On February 28, 2011, the court denied the Firm s motion to dismiss the
complaint. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $240 million plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs.  
 On August 7, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2006-4SL  and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series  2006-4SL  against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust
 2006-4SL,  et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the
trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $303 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreement underlying the
transaction, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. On December 2, 2016, the Firm moved for summary
judgment and the plaintiff moved for partial summary judgment. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $149 million, the total original unpaid balance of the
mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue
and the possible range of loss could increase.    On August 8, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf
of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-14SL, Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-4SL  and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series  2007-4SL  against the Firm styled  Morgan   Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-14SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc .,
pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trusts, which had original principal balances of approximately $354 million and $305 million
respectively, breached various representations

and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, rescission of the mortgage loan purchase agreements underlying the transactions, specific performance and unspecified damages and
interest. On August 16, 2013, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. On August 16, 2016, the Firm moved for summary judgment and the plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment.
Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $527 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands
that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.  
 On September 28, 2012, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust
2006-13ARX against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc.,  pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The
plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 17, 2013, which asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $609 million,
breached various representations and warranties. The amended complaint seeks, among other relief, declaratory judgment relief, specific performance and unspecified damages and interest. By order dated September 30, 2014, the court granted in
part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which plaintiff appealed. On August 11, 2016, the Appellate Division, First Department reversed in part the trial court s order that granted the Firm s
motion to dismiss. On December 13, 2016, the Appellate Division granted the Firm s motion for leave to appeal to the New York Court of Appeals. The Firm filed its opening letter brief with the Court of Appeals on February 6, 2017.
Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $170 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands
that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.  
 On January 10, 2013, U.S. Bank, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint on behalf of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL
and Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-10SL against the Firm styled  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10SL, et al. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, as successor in interest to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital
Inc. , pending in  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately
$300 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, an order requiring the Firm to comply with the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages, and
interest. On August 8, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to
approximately $197 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees
and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.    On May 3,
2013, plaintiffs in  Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank AG et al. v. Morgan Stanley et al.  filed a complaint against the Firm, certain affiliates, and other defendants in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint alleges that defendants made
material misrepresentations and omissions in the sale to plaintiffs of certain mortgage pass-through certificates backed by securitization trusts containing residential mortgage loans. The total amount of certificates allegedly sponsored,
underwritten and/or sold by the Firm to plaintiff was approximately $644 million. The complaint alleges causes of action against the Firm for common law fraud, fraudulent concealment, aiding and abetting fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and
rescission and seeks, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages. On June 10, 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. The Firm perfected its appeal from that decision on
June 12, 2015. At December 25, 2016, the current unpaid balance of the mortgage pass-through certificates at issue in this action was approximately $247 million, and the certificates had incurred actual losses of approximately
$86 million. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes it could incur a loss in this action up to the difference between the $247 million unpaid balance of these certificates (plus any losses incurred) and their fair
market value at the time of a judgment against the Firm, or upon sale, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs. The Firm may be entitled to be indemnified for some of these losses.  
 On July 8, 2013, U.S. Bank National Association, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the Firm styled  U.S. Bank
National Association, solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-2AX  (MSM  2007-2AX)  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings
LLC, as   Successor-by-Merger   to Morgan Stanley Mortgage   Capital Inc. and GreenPoint Mortgage Fundin g,  Inc. ,

pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of
approximately $650 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified damages and interest. On
August 22, 2013, the Firm filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on November 24, 2014. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of
up to approximately $240 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest,
fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.    On
December 30, 2013, Wilmington Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust  2007-12,  filed a complaint against the Firm styled  Wilmington Trust Company v. Morgan 
 Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC et al. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of
approximately $516 million, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages, attorneys  fees, interest and costs. On February 28, 2014, the defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the complaint, which was granted in part and denied in part on June 14, 2016. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $152 million, the total
original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus attorney s fees, costs and interest, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible
range of loss could increase.    On April 28, 2014, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee for Morgan Stanley
Structured Trust I  2007-1,  filed a complaint against the Firm styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company   v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC , pending in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $735 million, breached
various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages, interest and costs. On
April 3, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $292 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for
which the Firm received repurchase demands that it did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible
range of loss could increase.    On September 19, 2014, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company ( FGIC ) filed a complaint
against the Firm in the Supreme Court of NY, styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et al.  relating to a securitization issued by Basket of Aggregated Residential NIMS
 2007-1  Ltd. The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the net interest margin securities ( NIMS ) in the trust breached various representations and
warranties. FGIC issued a financial guaranty policy with respect to certain notes that had an original balance of approximately $475 million. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the NIMS breach remedy procedures in
the transaction documents, unspecified damages, reimbursement of certain payments made pursuant to the transaction documents, attorneys  fees and interest. On November 24, 2014, the Firm filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the
court denied on January 19, 2017. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $126 million, the unpaid balance of these notes, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, as well as claim payments that FGIC has made and will make in the future.  
 On September 23, 2014, FGIC filed a complaint against the Firm in the Supreme Court of NY styled  Financial Guaranty Insurance Company
v. Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. et   al . relating to the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust  2007-NC4.  The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement and
alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust breached various representations and warranties and defendants made untrue statements and material omissions to induce FGIC to issue a financial guaranty policy on certain classes of
certificates that had an original balance of approximately $876 million. The complaint seeks, among other relief, specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential and punitive
damages, attorneys  fees and interest. On January 23, 2017, the court denied the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to
approximately $277 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands from a certificate holder and FGIC that the Firm did not repurchase, plus
 pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and

costs, as well as claim payments that FGIC has made and will make in the future. In addition, plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could
increase.    On January 23, 2015, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, in its capacity as trustee, filed a complaint against the Firm
styled  Deutsche Bank National Trust Company solely in its capacity as Trustee of the Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. Trust  2007-NC4  v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC as   Successor-by-Merger   to Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc., and Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc. , pending in the Supreme Court of NY. The complaint asserts claims for
breach of contract and alleges, among other things, that the loans in the trust, which had an original principal balance of approximately $1.05 billion, breached various representations and warranties. The complaint seeks, among other relief,
specific performance of the loan breach remedy procedures in the transaction documents, compensatory, consequential, rescissory, equitable and punitive damages, attorneys  fees, costs and other related expenses, and interest. On
December 11, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the Firm s motion to dismiss the complaint. On February 11, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that order. Based on currently available information, the Firm
believes that it could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately $277 million, the total original unpaid balance of the mortgage loans for which the Firm received repurchase demands from a certificate holder and a monoline insurer that
the Firm did not repurchase, plus  pre-  and post-judgment interest, fees and costs, but plaintiff is seeking to expand the number of loans at issue and the possible range of loss could increase.  
 In May 2016, the Austrian state of Land Salzburg filed a claim against the Firm in Germany (the  German Proceedings ) seeking
 209 million (approximately $220 million) relating to certain fixed income and commodities derivative transactions which Land Salzburg entered into with the Firm between 2005 and 2012. Land Salzburg has alleged that it had neither the
capacity nor authority to enter into such transactions, which should be set aside, and that the Firm breached certain advisory and other duties which the Firm had owed to it. In April 2016, the Firm filed a
 pre-emptive  claim against Land Salzburg in the English courts (the  English Proceedings ) in which the Firm is seeking declarations that Land Salzburg had both the capacity and authority to enter
into the transactions, and that the Firm has no liability to Land Salzburg arising from them. In July 2016, the Firm filed an application with the German court to stay the German Proceedings on the basis that the English court was first seized of
the dispute between the parties and, pending determination of that application, filed its statement of defense on December 23, 2016. On December 8, 2016,

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Land Salzburg filed an application with the English court challenging its jurisdiction to determine the English Proceedings. Based on currently available information, the Firm believes that it
could incur a loss in this action of up to approximately  209 million, plus interest and costs.      

13.  
  Variable Interest Entities and Securitization Activities        Overview   
 The Firm is involved with various SPEs in the normal course of business. In most cases, these entities are deemed to be VIEs.  
 The Firm s variable interests in VIEs include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees, derivative instruments and certain
fees. The Firm s involvement with VIEs arises primarily from:      

Interests purchased in connection with market-making activities, securities held in its Investment securities
portfolio and retained interests held as a result of securitization activities, including  re-securitization  transactions.     

Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations.

Loans made to and investments in VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets.

Derivatives entered into with VIEs.     

Structuring of CLNs or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.

Other structured transactions designed to provide  tax-efficient  yields
to the Firm or its clients.       The Firm determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon its initial
involvement with the VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary on an ongoing basis as long as it has any continuing involvement with the VIE. This determination is based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including the
VIE s structure and activities, the power to make significant economic decisions held by the Firm and by other parties, and the variable interests owned by the Firm and other parties.  
 The power to make the most significant economic decisions may take a number of different forms in different types of VIEs. The Firm considers
servicing or collateral management decisions as representing the power to make the most significant economic decisions in transactions such as securitizations or CDOs. As a result, the Firm does not consolidate

securitizations or CDOs for which it does not act as the servicer or collateral manager unless it holds certain other rights to replace the servicer or collateral manager or to require the
liquidation of the entity. If the Firm serves as servicer or collateral manager, or has certain other rights described in the previous sentence, the Firm analyzes the interests in the VIE that it holds and consolidates only those VIEs for which it
holds a potentially significant interest of the VIE.    The structure of securitization vehicles and CDOs is driven by several parties,
including loan seller(s) in securitization transactions, the collateral manager in a CDO, one or more rating agencies, a financial guarantor in some transactions and the underwriter(s) of the transactions, that serve to reflect specific investor
demand. In addition, subordinate investors, such as the   B-piece   buyer ( i.e.,  investors in most subordinated bond classes) in commercial mortgage-backed securitizations or equity investors in
CDOs, can influence whether specific loans are excluded from a CMBS transaction or investment criteria in a CDO.    For many transactions,
such as  re-securitization  transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged notes, there are no significant economic decisions made on an ongoing basis. In these cases, the Firm focuses its analysis on decisions
made prior to the initial closing of the transaction and at the termination of the transaction. Based upon factors, which include an analysis of the nature of the assets, including whether the assets were issued in a transaction sponsored by the
Firm and the extent of the information available to the Firm and to investors, the number, nature and involvement of investors, other rights held by the Firm and investors, the standardization of the legal documentation and the level of continuing
involvement by the Firm, including the amount and type of interests owned by the Firm and by other investors, the Firm concluded in most of these transactions that decisions made prior to the initial closing were shared between the Firm and the
initial investors. The Firm focused its control decision on any right held by the Firm or investors related to the termination of the VIE. Most  re-securitization  transactions, CLNs and other asset-repackaged
notes have no such termination rights.     Consolidated VIEs   
 Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings and managed real estate partnerships in the tables below, the Firm
accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Trading assets and the liabilities of the entities in Other secured financings in its consolidated balance sheets. For consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the Firm
accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Premises, equipment and software costs, and

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Other assets in its consolidated balance sheets. For consolidated VIEs included in managed real estate partnerships, the Firm accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Trading
assets in its consolidated balance sheets. Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the assets and liabilities are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in earnings.  
 As part of the Institutional Securities business segment s securitization and related activities, the Firm has provided, or otherwise
agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Firm (see Note 12).  
 As a result of adopting the accounting update  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  on January 1, 2016, certain consolidated
entities are now considered VIEs and are included in the balances at December 31, 2016. See Note 2 for further information.     Assets and Liabilities by Type
of Activity       

1. 
   Asset-backed securitizations include transactions backed by residential mortgage loans, commercial mortgage loans and
other types of assets, including consumer or commercial assets. The value of assets is determined based on the fair value of the liabilities of and the interests owned by the Firm in such VIEs because the fair values for the liabilities and
interests owned are more observable.     

2. 
   Other primarily includes certain operating entities, investment funds and structured transactions.

Assets and Liabilities by Balance Sheet Caption   
   
   Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities are presented in the previous tables after intercompany eliminations.
The assets owned by many consolidated VIEs cannot be removed unilaterally by the Firm and are not generally available to the Firm. The related liabilities issued by many consolidated VIEs are  non-recourse  to
the Firm. In certain other consolidated VIEs, the Firm either has the unilateral right to remove assets or provide additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.  
 In general, the Firm s exposure to loss in consolidated VIEs is limited to losses that would be absorbed on the VIE s net assets
recognized in its financial statements, net of amounts absorbed by third-party variable interest holders. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial statements related to consolidated
VIEs were $228 million and $37 million, respectively. The Firm also had additional maximum exposure to losses of approximately $78 million and $72 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively,
primarily related to certain derivatives, commitments, guarantees and other forms of involvement.  
   Non-consolidated  VIEs   
 The following tables include all VIEs in which the Firm has determined that its maximum exposure to loss is greater than specific thresholds
or meets certain other criteria and exclude exposure to loss from liabilities due to immateriality. Most of the VIEs included in the following tables are sponsored by unrelated parties; the Firm s involvement generally is the result of its
secondary market-making activities, securities held in its Investment securities portfolio (see Note 5) and certain investments in funds.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Non-consolidated  VIE Assets, Maximum and Carrying Value of Exposure to Loss

Non-consolidated  VIE Mortgage- and Asset-Backed Securitization Assets   
   
   The Firm s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the variable interests held
by the Firm. The maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the

Firm s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put options, and the fair value
of certain other derivatives and investments the Firm has made in the VIEs. Liabilities issued by VIEs generally are  non-recourse  to the Firm. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum
exposure related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect fair value write-downs already recorded by the Firm.    The Firm s maximum
exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Firm may utilize to hedge these risks associated with its variable interests. In addition, the Firm s maximum exposure to loss is not reduced by the
amount of collateral held as part of a transaction with the VIE or any party to the VIE directly against a specific exposure to loss.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Securitization transactions generally involve VIEs. Primarily as a result of its secondary
market-making activities, the Firm owned additional VIE assets mainly issued by securitization SPEs for which the maximum exposure to loss is less than specific thresholds. These additional assets totaled $11.7 billion and $12.9 billion at
December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. These assets were either retained in connection with transfers of assets by the Firm, acquired in connection with secondary market-making activities or held as AFS securities in its
Investment securities portfolio (see Note 5) or held as investments in funds. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, these assets consisted of securities backed by residential mortgage loans, commercial mortgage loans or other
consumer loans, such as credit card receivables, automobile loans and student loans, CDOs or CLOs, and investment funds. The Firm s primary risk exposure is to the securities issued by the SPE owned by the Firm, with the risk highest on the
most subordinate class of beneficial interests. These assets generally are included in Trading assets Corporate and other debt, Trading assets Investments or AFS securities within its Investment securities portfolio and are measured at
fair value (see Note 3). The Firm does not provide additional support in these transactions through contractual facilities, such as liquidity facilities, guarantees or similar derivatives. The Firm s maximum exposure to loss generally equals
the fair value of the assets owned.     Securitization Activities   
 In a securitization transaction, the Firm transfers assets (generally commercial or residential mortgage loans or U.S. agency securities) to
an SPE, sells to investors most of the beneficial interests, such as notes or certificates, issued by the SPE, and, in many cases, retains other beneficial interests. In many securitization transactions involving commercial mortgage loans, the Firm
transfers a portion of the assets to the SPE with unrelated parties transferring the remaining assets.    The purchase of the transferred
assets by the SPE is financed through the sale of these interests. In some of these transactions, primarily involving residential mortgage loans in the U.S., the Firm serves as servicer for some or all of the transferred loans. In many
securitizations, particularly involving residential mortgage loans, the Firm also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, with the SPE.  
 Although not obligated, the Firm generally makes a market in the securities issued by SPEs in these transactions. As a market maker, the Firm
offers to buy these securities from, and sell these securities to, investors. Securities purchased through these market-making activities are not considered to be retained interests, although these beneficial interests generally are included in
Trading assets Corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value.

The Firm enters into derivatives, generally interest rate swaps and interest rate caps, with a
senior payment priority in many securitization transactions. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with  non-SPE  counterparties and
are managed as part of the Firm s overall exposure. See Note 4 for further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities.  
   Available for Sale Securities      In
the AFS securities within the Investment securities portfolio, the Firm holds securities issued by VIEs not sponsored by the Firm. These securities include government-guaranteed securities issued in transactions sponsored by the federal mortgage
agencies and the most senior securities issued by VIEs in which the securities are backed by student loans, automobile loans, commercial mortgage loans or CLOs (see Note 5).  
   Municipal Tender Option Bond Trusts    
 In a municipal tender option bond transaction, the Firm, generally on behalf of a client, transfers a municipal bond to a trust. The trust
issues short-term securities that the Firm, as the remarketing agent, sells to investors. The client retains a residual interest. The short-term securities are supported by a liquidity facility pursuant to which the investors may put their
short-term interests. In some programs, the Firm provides this liquidity facility; in most programs, a third-party provider will provide such liquidity facility. The Firm may purchase short-term securities in its role either as remarketing agent or
as liquidity provider. The client can generally terminate the transaction at any time. The liquidity provider can generally terminate the transaction upon the occurrence of certain events. When the transaction is terminated, the municipal bond is
generally sold or returned to the client. Any losses suffered by the liquidity provider upon the sale of the bond are the responsibility of the client. This obligation generally is collateralized. Liquidity facilities provided to municipal tender
option bond trusts are classified as derivatives. The Firm consolidates any municipal tender option bond trusts in which it holds the residual interest.  
   Credit Protection Purchased through CLNs    
 In a CLN transaction, the Firm transfers assets (generally high-quality securities or money market investments) to an SPE, enters into a
derivative transaction in which the SPE writes protection on an unrelated reference asset or group of assets, through a credit default swap, a total return swap or similar instrument, and sells to investors the securities issued by the SPE. In some
transactions, the Firm may also enter into interest rate or currency swaps with the SPE. Upon the

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

occurrence of a credit event related to the reference asset, the SPE will deliver collateral securities as payment to the Firm. The Firm is generally exposed to price changes on the collateral
securities in the event of a credit event and subsequent sale. These transactions are designed to provide investors with exposure to certain credit risk on the reference asset. In some transactions, the assets and liabilities of the SPE are
recognized in the Firm s consolidated balance sheets. In other transactions, the transfer of the collateral securities is accounted for as a sale of assets, and the SPE is not consolidated. The structure of the transaction determines the
accounting treatment.    The derivatives in CLN transactions consist of total return swaps, credit default swaps or similar contracts in
which the Firm has purchased protection on a reference asset or group of assets. Payments by the SPE are collateralized. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with  non-SPE  counterparties and are managed as part of the Firm s overall exposure.      Other Structured Financings
     The Firm primarily invests in equity interests issued by entities that develop and own
 low-income  communities (including  low-income  housing projects) and entities that construct and own facilities that will generate energy from renewable resources. The
equity interests entitle the Firm to its share of tax credits and tax losses generated by these projects. In addition, the Firm has issued guarantees to investors in certain  low-income  housing funds. The
guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by the fund. The Firm is also involved with entities designed to provide  tax-efficient  yields to the Firm or its clients.      Collateralized Loan and Debt Obligations    
 A CLO or a CDO is an SPE that purchases a pool of assets, consisting of corporate loans, corporate bonds, asset-backed securities or synthetic
exposures on similar assets through derivatives, and issues multiple tranches of debt and equity securities to investors. The Firm underwrites the securities issued in CLO transactions on behalf of unaffiliated sponsors and provides advisory
services to these unaffiliated sponsors. The Firm sells corporate loans to many of these SPEs, in some cases representing a significant portion of the total assets purchased. If necessary, the Firm may retain unsold securities issued in these
transactions. Although not obligated, the Firm generally makes a market in the securities issued by SPEs in these transactions. These beneficial interests are included in Trading assets and are measured at fair value.

Equity-Linked Notes    
 In an ELN transaction, the Firm typically transfers to an SPE either (1) a note issued by the Firm, the payments on which are linked to
the performance of a specific equity security, equity index, or other index or (2) debt securities issued by other companies and a derivative contract, the terms of which will relate to the performance of a specific equity security, equity
index or other index. These transactions are designed to provide investors with exposure to certain risks related to the specific equity security, equity index or other index. ELN transactions with SPEs were not consolidated at December 31,
2016 and December 31, 2015.    Transactions with SPEs in which the Firm, acting as principal, transferred financial assets with
continuing involvement and received sales treatment are shown below.     Transfers of Assets with Continuing Involvement  

1. 
   Amounts include CLO transactions managed by unrelated third parties.     

2. 
   Amounts include assets transferred by unrelated transferors.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Transferred assets are carried at fair value prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are
recognized in the consolidated income statements. The Firm may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by these securitization vehicles. Investment banking underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions.
The Firm may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated balance sheets. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are
recognized in the consolidated income statements.     Proceeds from New Securitization Transactions and Retained Interests in Securitization Transactions   
   
   Net gains on sale of assets in securitization transactions at the time of the sale were not material for all
periods presented.    The Firm has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties regarding certain
assets transferred in securitization transactions sponsored by the Firm (see Note 12).

Proceeds from Sales to CLO Entities Sponsored by  Non-Affiliates    
   
   Net gains on sale of corporate loans to CLO transactions at the time of sale were not material for all periods
presented.    The Firm also enters into transactions in which it sells equity securities and contemporaneously enters into bilateral OTC
equity derivatives with the purchasers of the securities, through which it retains the exposure to the securities as shown in the following table.     Carrying and
Fair Value of Assets Sold and Retained Interest Exposure       
    Failed Sales   
 For transfers that fail to meet the accounting criteria for a sale, the Firm continues to recognize the assets in Trading assets at fair
value, and the Firm recognizes the associated liabilities in Other secured financings at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets (see Note 11).  
 The assets transferred to certain unconsolidated VIEs in transactions accounted for as failed sales cannot be removed unilaterally by the Firm
and are not generally available to the Firm. The related liabilities are also  non-recourse  to the Firm. In certain other failed sale transactions, the Firm has the right to remove assets or provide additional
recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.     Carrying Value of Assets and Liabilities Related to Failed
Sales       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

14. Regulatory Requirements   
  Regulatory Capital Framework     The Firm
is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ). The Federal Reserve
establishes capital requirements for the Firm, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Firm s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency establishes similar capital requirements and
standards for the Firm s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The regulatory capital requirements are largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and also implement certain provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.     Regulatory Capital Requirements   
 The Firm is required to maintain minimum risk-based and leverage capital ratios under the regulatory capital requirements. A summary of the
calculations of regulatory capital, risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ) and transition provisions follows.      Regulatory Capital    
 Minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements apply to Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital. Certain adjustments to
and deductions from capital are required for purposes of determining these ratios, such as goodwill, intangibles, certain deferred tax assets, other amounts in AOCI and investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions.
Certain of these adjustments and deductions are also subject to transitional provisions.    In addition to the minimum risk-based capital
ratio requirements, on a fully  phased-in  basis by 2019, the Firm will be subject to:      

A greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer;     

The Common Equity Tier 1 global systemically important bank capital surcharge, currently at 3%; and

Up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer, currently set by banking regulators at zero
(collectively, the  buffers ).       In 2016, the  phase-in  amount for each
of the buffers is 25% of the fully  phased-in  buffer requirement. Failure to maintain the buffers will result in restrictions on the Firm s ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of
dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers.      Risk-Weighted Assets    
 RWAs reflect both the Firm s  on-  and  off-balance  sheet
risk, as well as capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from the following:      

Credit risk: The failure of a borrower, counterparty or issuer to meet its financial obligations to the Firm;

Market risk: Adverse changes in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities,
correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity; and         

Operational risk: Inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or from external events
( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks or damage to physical assets).       The Firm s
binding risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk RWAs and market risk RWAs (the  Standardized Approach ) and
(ii) applicable advanced approaches for calculating credit risk, market risk and operational risk RWAs (the  Advanced Approach ).  
 The methods for calculating each of the Firm s risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as aspects of the
capital rules are phased in. These changes may result in differences in the Firm s reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to its capital base, asset composition,  off-balance  sheet exposures or risk profile.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

The Firm s Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios    
 At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Firm s binding ratios are based on the Advanced Approach transitional rules.
    Regulatory Capital       
     
   N/A Not Applicable  

1. 
   Percentages represent minimum regulatory capital ratios under the transitional rules.     

2. 
   Tier 1 leverage ratios are calculated under the Standardized Approach transitional rules.     

3. 
   Adjusted average assets represent the denominator of the Tier 1 leverage ratio and are composed of the average daily
balance of consolidated  on-balance  sheet assets under U.S. GAAP during the calendar quarter ended December 31 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, adjusted for disallowed goodwill, transitional
intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions and other adjustments.     
   U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios    
 The Firm s U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to similar regulatory capital requirements as the Firm. Failure to meet minimum capital
requirements can initiate certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the
regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, each of the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities and certain  off-balance 
sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.    Each U.S. depository institution subsidiary of the Firm must be
well-capitalized in order for the Firm to continue to

qualify as a financial holding company and to continue to engage in the broadest range of financial activities permitted for financial holding companies. Under regulatory capital
requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies, U.S. depository institutions must maintain certain minimum capital ratios in order to be considered well-capitalized. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Firm s
U.S. Bank Subsidiaries maintained capital at levels sufficiently in excess of the universally mandated well-capitalized requirements to address any additional capital needs and requirements identified by the U.S. federal banking regulators.
   At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  binding ratios are based on the Standardized
Approach transitional rules.     MSBNA s Regulatory Capital   

1. 
   Capital ratios that are required in order to be considered well-capitalized for U.S. regulatory purposes.
       MSPBNA s Regulatory Capital   

1. 
   Capital ratios that are required in order to be considered well-capitalized for U.S. regulatory purposes.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Broker-Dealer Regulatory Capital Requirements   
 MS Co. is a registered U.S. broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net
capital requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ). MS Co. has consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital
requirements. MS Co. s net capital totaled $10,311 million and $10,254 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, which exceeded the amount required by $8,034 million and $8,458 million,
respectively. MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of SEC Rule  15c3-1.  In addition, MS Co. is required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, MS Co. had tentative net
capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.    MSSB LLC is a registered U.S. broker-dealer and introducing broker
for the futures business and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC. MSSB LLC has consistently operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. MSSB LLC s net capital totaled
$3,946 million and $3,613 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, which exceeded the amount required by $3,797 million and $3,459 million, respectively.  
 MSIP, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority, and MSMS, a
Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIP and MSMS have consistently operated with capital in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.  
  Other Regulated Subsidiaries     Certain
other U.S. and  non-U.S.  subsidiaries of the Firm are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities
of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated with capital in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.  
 The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the
Firm, may restrict the Firm s ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2016

and December 31, 2015, approximately $25.3 billion and $28.6 billion, respectively, of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends
and advances to the Parent Company.       15. Total Equity   
  Morgan Stanley Shareholders  Equity      Common
Stock      Changes in Shares of Common Stock Outstanding       

1. 
   In addition to the Firm s share repurchase program, Treasury stock purchases include repurchases of common stock
for employee tax withholding.     

2. 
   Other includes net shares issued to and forfeited from Employee stock trusts and issued for RSU conversions.
       Dividends and Share Repurchases   
 The Firm repurchased approximately $3,500 million of its outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program during 2016,
and the Firm repurchased approximately $2,125 million during 2015.    In June 2016, the Firm received a conditional  non-objection  from the Federal Reserve to its 2016 capital plan. The capital plan included a share repurchase of up to $3.5 billion of the Firm s outstanding common stock during the period beginning
July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017. Additionally, the capital plan included an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.20 per share from $0.15 per share during the period beginning with the dividend declared on July 20,
2016.    Pursuant to the share repurchase program, the Firm considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as
stock-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases under the program will be exercised from time to time at prices the Firm deems appropriate subject to various factors, including the Firm s capital position and market
conditions. The share repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule  10b5-1  plans, and may be suspended at any time. Share repurchases by
the Firm are subject to regulatory approval.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Employee Stock Trusts   
 The Firm has established Employee stock trusts to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding RSUs. The
assets of the Employee stock trusts are consolidated with those of the Firm, and the value of the stock held in the Employee stock trusts is classified in Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to
treasury stock.     Preferred Stock   
 Dividends declared on the Firm s outstanding preferred stock were $468 million, $452 million and $311 million in 2016,
2015 and 2014, respectively. On December 15, 2016, the Firm announced that the Board declared quarterly dividends for preferred stock shareholders of record on December 30, 2016 that were paid on January 17, 2017. The Firm is
authorized to issue 30 million shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock has a preference over the common stock upon liquidation. The Firm s preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital in accordance with regulatory capital
requirements (see Note 14).     Series K Preferred Stock.  In January 2017, the Firm issued 40,000,000 Depositary Shares, for an
aggregate price of $1,000 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate
 Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series K, $0.01 par value ( Series K Preferred Stock ). The Series K Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Firm s option, (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any dividend payment date on or after April 15, 2027 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time

within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary
Share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Series K Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Firm s common stock upon liquidation.
The Series K Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $969 million.     Preferred Stock Outstanding

1. 
   Series C is composed of the issuance of 1,160,791 shares of Series C Preferred Stock to MUFG for an aggregate purchase
price of $911 million, less the redemption of 640,909 shares of Series C Preferred Stock of $503 million, which were converted to common shares of approximately $705 million.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Preferred Stock Issuance Description       

1. 
   The redemption price per share for Series A, E, F, G and I is equivalent to $25.00 per Depositary Share. The redemption
price per share for Series H and J is equivalent to $1,000 per Depositary Share.     

3. 
   The preferred stock is redeemable at the Firm s option, in whole or in part, on or after the redemption date.

4. 
   Dividends on the Series C preferred stock are payable, on a  non-cumulative 
basis, as and if declared by the Board, in cash, at the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share.     

5. 
   The preferred stock is redeemable at the Firm s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any
dividend payment date on or after the redemption date or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series).     

6. 
   Dividend on Series H preferred stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2019 and quarterly thereafter.

7. 
   Dividend on Series J preferred stock is payable semiannually until July 15, 2020 and quarterly thereafter. In
addition to the redemption price per share, the redemption price includes any declared and unpaid dividends up to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

1. 
   Amounts net of tax and noncontrolling interests.     

2. 
   In accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement of
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , a cumulative catch-up adjustment was recorded as of January 1, 2016 to move the cumulative unrealized DVA amount, net of noncontrolling interest and tax, related to outstanding liabilities under
the fair value option election from Retained earnings into AOCI. See Note 2 for further information.        Period Changes in OCI
Components       

1. 
   Exclusive of 2016 cumulative adjustment for accounting change related to DVA.     

2. 
   Amounts reclassified to earnings related to: realized gains and losses from sales of AFS securities are classified
within Other revenues in the consolidated income statements; Pension, postretirement and other are classified within Compensation and benefits expenses in the consolidated income statements; and realization of DVA are classified within Trading
revenues in the consolidated income statements.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments   
 Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements
from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Firm uses foreign currency contracts to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in  non-U.S.  dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable
currently. The Firm may elect not to hedge its net investments in certain foreign operations due to market conditions or other reasons, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information at December 31,
2016 and December 31, 2015 relating to the effects on cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments that resulted from the translation of foreign currency financial statements and from gains and losses from hedges of the Firm s net
investments in  non-U.S.  dollar functional currency subsidiaries is summarized in the following table.

Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments   
   
   Net investments in  non-U.S.  dollar functional currency subsidiaries
subject to hedges were $8,856 million and $8,170 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.     Noncontrolling
Interests     Noncontrolling interests were $1,127 million and $1,002 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31,
2015, respectively. The increase in noncontrolling interests was primarily due to the consolidation of certain investment management funds sponsored by the Firm and the increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. See Note 2 for
further information on the adoption of the accounting update  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis .  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

16. Earnings per Common Share   
  Calculation of Basic and Diluted EPS       

1. 
   RSUs that are considered participating securities are treated as a separate class of securities in the computation of
basic EPS, and, therefore, such RSUs are not included as incremental shares in the diluted EPS computations. The diluted EPS computations also do not include weighted average antidilutive RSUs and antidilutive stock options of 13 million shares
during 2016, 12 million shares during 2015 and 15 million shares during 2014.

17. Interest Income and Interest Expense   

1. 
   Interest income and Interest expense are recorded within the consolidated income statements depending on the nature of
the instrument and related market conventions. When interest is included as a component of the instrument s fair value, interest is included within Trading revenues or Investments revenues. Otherwise, it is included within Interest income or
Interest expense.     

2. 
   Includes fees paid on Securities borrowed.     

3. 
   Interest expense on Trading liabilities is reported as a reduction to Interest income on Trading assets.

4. 
   Includes interest from customer receivables and cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal
and other regulations or requirements.     

5. 
   Includes fees received on Securities loaned.     

6. 
   Includes fees received from prime brokerage customers for stock loan transactions incurred to cover customers 
short positions.          18. Deferred Compensation Plans   
 The Firm maintains various deferred stock-based and cash-based compensation plans for the benefit of certain current and former employees.
    Stock-Based Compensation Plans     The
components of the Firm s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented in the following table:     Stock-Based Compensation Expense

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

The tax benefit related to stock-based compensation expense was $381 million,
$369 million and $404 million for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.    At December 31, 2016, the Firm had $619 million
of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards. Absent forfeitures or cancellations, this amount of unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized as $415 million in 2017, $175 million in 2018 and
$29 million thereafter. These amounts do not include 2016 performance year awards granted in January 2017, which will begin to be amortized in 2017 (see  2016 Performance Year Deferred Compensation Awards  herein).  
 In connection with awards under its stock-based compensation plans, the Firm is authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in
treasury or newly issued shares. At December 31, 2016, approximately 103 million shares were available for future grants under these plans.  
 The Firm generally uses treasury shares, if available, to deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing repurchase authorization that
includes repurchases in connection with awards granted under its stock-based compensation plans. Share repurchases by the Firm are subject to regulatory approval. See Note 15 for additional information on the Firm s share repurchase program.
    Restricted Stock Units     RSUs are
generally subject to vesting over time, generally three years from the date of grant, contingent upon continued employment and subject to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until conversion to common stock. All or a portion of an award may
be canceled if employment is terminated before the end of the relevant vesting period and after the relevant vesting period in certain situations. Recipients of RSUs may have voting rights, at the Firm s discretion, and generally receive
dividend equivalents.     Vested and Unvested RSU Activity       

The weighted average grant date fair value for RSUs granted during 2015 and 2014 was $34.76 and
$32.58, respectively. At December 31, 2016, the weighted average remaining term until delivery for the Firm s outstanding RSUs was approximately 1.3 years.  
 At December 31, 2016, the intrinsic value of RSUs vested or expected to vest was $4,159 million.  
 The total intrinsic value of RSUs converted to common stock during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1,068 million, $1,646 million and
$1,461 million, respectively.     Unvested RSU Activity       

1. 
   Unvested RSUs represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or
retirement-eligible requirements. At December 31, 2016, approximately 63 million unvested RSUs with a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.68 were expected to vest.     
 The aggregate fair value of awards that vested during 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $1,088 million, $1,693 million and
$1,517 million, respectively.     Stock Options   
 Stock options generally have an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Firm s common stock on the date of grant, vest and
become exercisable over a three-year period and expire five to 10 years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon certain terminations of employment. Stock options have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are
generally similar to those of RSUs.    No stock options were granted during 2016, 2015 or 2014.  
 The Firm s expected option life has been determined based upon historical experience. The expected stock price volatility assumption was
determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded options, in accordance with accounting guidance for share-based payments. The risk-free interest rate was determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury  zero-coupon  issues.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Stock Option Activity       
     
   The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $41 million in 2016 and $2 million per
year in 2015 and 2014, with a weighted average exercise price of $26.90, $30.01 and $24.68 for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Cash received from the exercise of stock options was $66 million for 2016. The income tax benefits realized from
the exercise of the stock options was $3 million for 2016. At December 31, 2016, the intrinsic value of exercisable stock options was $26 million.  
  Stock Options Outstanding and Exercisable       
    Performance-Based Stock Units   
 PSUs will vest and convert to shares of common stock at the end of the performance period only if the Firm satisfies predetermined performance
and market-based conditions over the three-year performance period that began on January 1 of the grant year and ends three years later on December 31. Under the terms of the award, the number of PSUs that will actually vest and convert to
shares will be based on the extent to which the Firm achieves the specified performance goals during the performance period. PSUs have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those of RSUs.  
  One-half  of the award will be earned based on the Firm s average return on equity, excluding the
impact of DVA, certain gains or losses associated with the sale of specified businesses, specified goodwill impairments, certain gains or losses associated with specified legal settlements related to business activities conducted prior to
January 1, 2011 and specified cumulative  catch-up  adjustments resulting from

changes in an existing, or application of a new accounting principle that are not applied on a fully retrospective basis ( MS Adjusted Average ROE ). The number of PSUs ultimately
earned for this portion of the awards will be determined by applying a multiplier within the following ranges:      

Minimum 
    
 Maximum 

MS Adjusted   Average
ROE  
    
 Multiplier 
    
 MS Adjusted Average ROE 
    
 Multiplier 

Less than 5%  
    
 0.0 
    
 11.5% or more 

1.5 
    
   On the date of award, the fair value per share of this portion was $25.19, $34.58 and $32.81 for 2016, 2015
and 2014, respectively.     One-half  of the award will be earned based on the Firm s total
shareholder return, relative to the total shareholder return of the S P 500 Financial Sectors Index ( Relative MS TSR ). The number of PSUs ultimately earned for this portion of the award will be determined by applying a multiplier
within the following ranges:      

Minimum 
    
 Maximum 

Relative MS TSR 
    
 Multiplier 
    
 Relative MS TSR 
    
 Multiplier 

Less than  -50%   
    
 0.0 
    
 25% or more 

1.5 
    
   On the date of award, the fair value per share of this portion was $24.51, $38.07 and $37.72 for 2016, 2015
and 2014, respectively, estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation and the following assumptions:      
   The risk-free interest rate was determined based on the yields available on U.S. Treasury  zero-coupon  issues. The expected stock price volatility was determined using historical volatility. The expected dividend yield is equivalent to reinvesting dividends. A correlation coefficient was developed based
on historical price data of the Firm and the S P 500 Financial Sectors Index.     PSU Activity   

2016  

in millions   
    
 Number of Shares 

PSUs at beginning of period  

4  

Awarded  

2  

Conversions to common stock  

(2  
  )    
 
   PSUs at end of period  

4  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Deferred Cash-Based Compensation Plans   
 Deferred cash-based compensation plans generally provide a return to the plan participants based upon the performance of various referenced
investments.    The components of the Firm s deferred compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented as follows:  
  Deferred Compensation Expense       

At December 31, 2016, the Firm had approximately $688 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested deferred
cash-based awards (excluding unrecognized expense for returns on referenced investments). Absent forfeitures or cancellations and any future return on referenced investments, this amount of unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized as
$394 million in 2017, $111 million in 2018 and $183 million thereafter. These amounts do not include 2016 performance year awards granted in January 2017, which will begin to be amortized in 2017 (see below).  
  2016 Performance Year Deferred Compensation Awards   
 In January 2017, the Firm granted approximately $763 billion of stock-based awards and $895 billion of deferred cash-based
awards related to the 2016 performance year that contain a future service requirement. Absent forfeitures or cancellations or accelerations, and any future return on referenced investments, the annual compensation cost for these
awards will be recognized as follows:     Annual Compensation Cost for 2016 Performance Year Awards   

19. Employee Benefit Plans   
 The Firm sponsors various retirement plans for the majority of its U.S. and  non-U.S.  employees. The
Firm provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees.     Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans     Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Firm and its U.S. affiliates who were hired before July 1,
2007 are covered by the U.S. pension plan, a  non-contributory,  defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  U.S. Qualified Plan ). The
U.S. Qualified Plan has ceased future benefit accruals.    Unfunded supplementary plans (the  Supplemental Plans ) cover certain
executives. Liabilities for benefits payable under the Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Firm and are funded when paid. The Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement and Excess Plan (the  SEREP ), a  non-contributory  defined benefit plan that is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, ceased future benefit accruals after September 30, 2014. Any benefits earned under the SEREP prior
to October 1, 2014 will be payable in the future based on the SEREP s provisions. The amendment did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.  
 Certain of the Firm s  non-U.S.  subsidiaries also have defined benefit pension plans covering
substantially all of their employees.    The Firm s pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each
employee s years of credited service and on compensation levels specified in the plans.    The Firm has an unfunded postretirement
benefit plan that provides medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and medical insurance for their dependents. The Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was amended to change the health care plans offered after December 31, 2014 for retirees who
are Medicare-eligible and age 65 or older. The amendment did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Components of the Net Periodic Benefit Expense (Income)   
   
     Pre-tax  Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The Firm generally amortizes into net periodic benefit expense (income) the unrecognized net
gains and losses exceeding 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. The amortization of the unrecognized net gains and losses is generally over the future service of active participants. The
U.S. Qualified Plan and, effective October 1, 2014, the SEREP amortize the unrecognized net gains and losses over the average life expectancy of participants.  
  Weighted Average Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Expense (Income)       
   The accounting for pension and postretirement plans involves certain assumptions and estimates. The expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or
market conditions. The expected long-term rate of return for the U.S. Qualified Plan was estimated by computing a weighted average of the underlying long-term expected returns based on the investment managers  target allocations. The U.S.
Qualified Plan is primarily invested in fixed income securities and related derivative instruments, including interest rate swap contracts. This asset allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and limit volatility of the
Firm s contributions. Total U.S. Qualified Plan investment portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual investment performance to changes in the estimated present value of the U.S. Qualified Plan s benefit obligation.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Benefit Obligation and Funded Status   
  Rollforward of the Benefit Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets       

1. 
   Amounts primarily reflect the impact of year-over-year discount rate fluctuations.     

2. 
   Amounts represent adoption of new mortality tables published by the Society of Actuaries.

Summary of Funded Status       
   The estimated prior service credit that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
into net periodic benefit expense over 2017 is approximately $17 million for the other postretirement plan. The estimated net loss that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit expense
(income) over 2017 is approximately $17 million for defined benefit pension plans.    The accumulated benefit obligation for all
defined benefit pension plans was $3,696 million and $3,592 million at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Pension Plans with Projected Benefit Obligation in Excess of the Fair Value of Plan Assets   
   
    Pension Plans with Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess of the Fair Value of Plan Assets   
   
    Weighted Average Assumptions Used to Determine Benefit Obligation   

N/A Not 
   Applicable     
 The discount rates used to determine the benefit obligation for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans were selected by the Firm, in
consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the plans, each determined independently. The pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on duration implicit
in a representative broad-based Aa rated corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. For all  non-U.S.  pension plans, the Firm set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of
liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.     Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates Used to Determine the U.S. Postretirement Benefit
Obligation       

Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
the Firm s postretirement benefit plan.     Effect of Changes in Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates   

$ in millions   
    
  One-Percentage  Point Increase 

One-Percentage  Point Decrease 

Total 2016 postretirement service and interest cost  

N/M  

N/M  

December 31, 2016 postretirement benefit obligation  
    
  $  
  6  

$  
  (5  
  )    

N/M Not 
   Meaningful     
  Plan Assets     The U.S. Qualified Plan
assets represent 88% of the Firm s total pension plan assets. The U.S. Qualified Plan uses a combination of active and risk-controlled fixed income investment strategies. The fixed income asset allocation consists primarily of fixed income
securities and related derivative instruments designed to approximate the expected cash flows of the plan s liabilities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better align assets with the obligation. The
longer-duration fixed income allocation is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and maintain the stability of plan contributions over the long run.  
 Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan s investment portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of
the plan s investment policy guidelines and are consistent with the plan s risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:  

May be used only if derivative instruments are deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a
similar direct investment in the underlying cash market or if the vehicle is being used to manage risk of the portfolio.         

May not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances.

May not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that
investment activity is undertaken for long-term investment rather than short-term trading.         

May be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio only when the derivative
instruments  possible effects can be quantified, shown to enhance the risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a
respective derivative product. This includes percentage allocations and credit quality. Derivatives are used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.  
 Plan assets are measured at fair value using valuation techniques that are consistent with the valuation techniques applied to the Firm s
major categories of assets and liabilities as described in Notes 2 and 3. OTC derivative contracts consist of investments in interest rate swaps.  
 Other investments consist of pledged insurance annuity contracts held by non-U.S.-based plans. The pledged insurance annuity contracts are
valued based on the premium reserve of the insurer for a guarantee that the insurer has given to the employee benefit plan that approximates fair value. The pledged insurance annuity contracts are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
   Commingled trust funds are privately offered funds that are regulated, supervised and subject to periodic examination by a U.S. federal
or state agency and available to institutional clients. The trust must be maintained for the collective investment or reinvestment of assets contributed to it from U.S.

tax-qualified  employee benefit plans maintained by more than one employer or controlled group of corporations. The sponsor of the commingled trust funds
values the funds based on the fair value of the underlying securities. The underlying securities of the commingled trust funds held by the U.S. Qualified Plan consist mainly of long-duration fixed income instruments. Commingled trust funds are
redeemable at NAV at the measurement date or in the near future.    Some  non-U.S.-based  plans hold
foreign funds that consist of investments in fixed income funds, target cash flow funds and liquidity funds. Fixed income funds invest in individual securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange or traded in a regulated market. Certain fixed
income funds aim to produce returns consistent with certain Financial Times Stock Exchange indexes. Target cash flow funds are designed to provide a series of fixed annual cash flows achieved by investing in government bonds and derivatives.
Liquidity funds place a high priority on capital preservation, stable value and a high liquidity of assets. Foreign funds are readily redeemable at NAV.  
 The Firm generally considers the NAV of commingled trust funds and foreign funds provided by the fund manager to be the best estimate of fair
value.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Fair Value of Plan Assets and Liabilities   

1. 
   Cash and cash equivalents, other receivables and other liabilities are valued at their carrying value, which
approximates fair value.     

2. 
   Amounts exclude Commingled trust funds and Foreign funds measured at fair value using the NAV per share, which are not
classified in the fair value hierarchy. Commingled trust funds consist of investments in fixed income funds and money market funds of $999 million and $86 million, respectively, at December 31, 2016 and $1,239 million and
$59 million, respectively, at December 31, 2015. Foreign funds include investments in fixed income funds, liquidity funds and targeted cash flow funds of $111 million, $9 million and $194 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2016 and $149 million, $98 million and $91 million, respectively, at December 31, 2015. Fund amounts as of December 31, 2015 have been excluded from the table to conform to the current presentation.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

There were no transfers between levels during 2016 and 2015.  
  Changes in Level 3 Pension Assets       
    Expected Contributions   
 The Firm s policy is to fund at least the amount sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and
tax laws. At December 31, 2016, the Firm expected to contribute approximately $50 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2017 based upon the plans  current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for
2017.     Expected Future Benefit Payments       
    Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan   
 U.S. employees meeting certain eligibility requirements may participate in the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan. Eligible U.S. employees receive
discretionary 401(k) matching cash contributions as determined annually by the Firm. For 2016 and 2015, the Firm made a $1 for $1 Firm match up to 4% of eligible pay, up to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) limit. Matching contributions
for 2016 and 2015 were invested according to each participant s investment direction. Eligible U.S. employees with eligible pay less than or equal to $100,000 also received a fixed contribution under the 401(k) Plan that equaled 2% of eligible
pay. Transition contributions are allocated to certain eligible employees. The Firm match, fixed contribution and transition contribution are included in the Firm s 401(k) expense. The Firm s 401(k) expense for 2016, 2015 and 2014 was
$250 million, $255 million and $256 million, respectively.

Defined Contribution Pension Plans   
 The Firm maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain  non-U.S.  subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Firm s expense related to these plans was
$101 million, $111 million and $117 million, respectively.       20. Income Taxes   
  Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes      Components of
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes       

1. 
   For 2016, significant  Non-U.S.  other jurisdictions included total tax
provisions of $125 million, $46 million and $38 million from Brazil, India and France, respectively. For 2015, significant  Non-U.S.  other jurisdictions included total tax provisions of
$68 million, $62 million, $58 million, $45 million and $42 million from Mexico, Brazil, Netherlands, India and France, respectively. For 2014, significant  Non-U.S.  other jurisdictions
included total tax provisions of $44 million, $38 million and $38 million from Brazil, India and Mexico, respectively.     
 The Firm recorded a net income tax provision (benefit) to Additional  paid-in  capital related to
employee stock-based compensation transactions of $24 million, $(203) million and $(6) million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Effective Income Tax Rate   
  Reconciliation of the U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to the Effective Income Tax Rate   
   
   The Firm s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2016 included net discrete tax benefits of
$68 million. These net discrete tax benefits were primarily related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, partially offset by adjustments for
other tax matters. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2016 would have been 31.6%.  
 The Firm s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million. These net
discrete tax benefits were primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the Firm s legal entity
organization in the U.K. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2015 would have been 32.5%.  
 The Firm s effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 included net discrete tax benefits of $2,226 million. These net
discrete tax benefits consisted of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability, previously established as part of the acquisition of Smith Barney in 2009 through a charge to Additional
 paid-in  capital, as a result of the legal entity restructuring that included a change in tax status of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC from a partnership to a corporation; $609 million
principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination; and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. Excluding these net discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2014 would have been 59.5%,

which is primarily attributable to approximately $900 million of tax provision from  non-deductible  expenses for litigation and regulatory matters.
    Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities   
 Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse.     Deferred Tax Assets and
Liabilities       
   The Firm had tax credit carryforwards for which a related deferred tax asset of $465 million and
$1,647 million was recorded at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization, with the earliest expiration beginning in 2030, if not utilized.  
 The Firm believes the recognized net deferred tax asset (after valuation allowance) of $4,767 million at December 31, 2016 is more
likely than not to be realized based on expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.    The Firm had
$12,006 million and $10,209 million of cumulative earnings at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no U.S. provision has been recorded for income tax

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

that could occur upon repatriation. Accordingly, $1,111 million and $893 million of deferred tax liabilities were not recorded with respect to these earnings at December 31, 2016
and December 31, 2015, respectively. The increase in indefinitely reinvested earnings is attributable to regulatory and other capital requirements in foreign jurisdictions.  
  Unrecognized Tax Benefits     The total
amount of unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $1.9 billion, $1.8 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. Of this total, approximately
$1.1 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively (net of federal benefit of state issues, competent authority and foreign tax credit offsets), represent the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would
favorably affect the effective tax rate in future periods.    Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as
provision for income taxes. The Firm recognized $28 million, $18 million and $(35) million of interest expense (benefit) (net of federal and state income tax benefits) in the consolidated income statements for 2016, 2015 and 2014,
respectively. Interest expense accrued at December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was approximately $150 million, $122 million and $258 million, respectively, net of federal and state income tax
benefits. Penalties

related to unrecognized tax benefits for the years mentioned above were immaterial.     Rollforward of
Unrecognized Tax Benefits       

$ in millions   
   
 Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

Balance at December 31, 2013  
   
 $ 
 4,096 

Increase based on tax positions related to the current
period  

135 

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods  

100 

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods  

(2,080) 

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities  

(19) 

Decrease related to a lapse of applicable statute of
limitations  

(4) 

Balance at December 31, 2014  
   
 $ 
 2,228 

Increase based on tax positions related to the current
period  
   
 $ 
 230 

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods  

114 

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods  

(753) 

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities  

(7) 

Decrease related to a lapse of applicable statute of
limitations  

(8) 

Balance at December 31, 2015  
   
 $ 
 1,804 

Increase based on tax positions related to the current
period  
   
 $ 
 172 

Increase based on tax positions related to prior periods  

14 

Decrease based on tax positions related to prior periods  

(134) 

Decrease related to settlements with taxing authorities  

Decrease related to a lapse of applicable statute of
limitations  

(5) 

Balance at December 31, 2016   
   
  $  
  1,851  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Tax Authority Examinations   
 The Firm is under continuous examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and in states
in which it has significant business operations, such as New York. The Firm is currently at various levels of field examination with respect to audits by the IRS, as well as New York State and New York City, for tax years 2009-2012 and 2007-2013,
respectively. The Firm believes that the resolution of these tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated balance sheets, although a resolution could have a material impact on the consolidated income statements for a particular
future period and the effective tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.    In April 2016, the Firm received a notification
from the IRS that the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation approved the final report of an Appeals Office review of matters from tax years 1999-2005, and the Revenue Agent s Report reflecting agreed closure of the 2006-2008 tax years. The
Firm has reserved the right to contest certain items, associated with tax years 1999-2005, the resolution of which is not expected to have a material impact on the effective tax rate or the consolidated financial statements.  
 During 2017, the Firm expects to reach a conclusion with the U.K. tax authorities on substantially all issues through tax year 2010, the
resolution of which is not expected to have a material impact on the effective tax rate or the consolidated financial statements.    The
Firm has established a liability for unrecognized tax benefits that it believes is adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Firm adjusts liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits only when new
information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change.    The Firm periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in
each taxing jurisdiction resulting from the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of current and subsequent years  examinations. As part of the Firm s periodic review, federal and state
unrecognized tax benefits were released or remeasured.    It is reasonably possible that significant changes in the balance of unrecognized
tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months related to certain tax authority examinations referred to herein. At this time, however, it is not possible to

reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the impact on the Firm s effective tax rate over the next 12 months.  
  Earliest Tax Year Subject to Examination in Major Tax Jurisdictions       
    Income from Continuing Operations before Income Tax Expense (Benefit)   

1. 
    Non-U.S.  income is defined as income generated from operations located outside
the U.S.          21. Segment and Geographic Information   
  Segment Information     The Firm structures
its segments primarily based upon the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and its management organization. The Firm provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of the business
segments: Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. For a further discussion of the business segments, see Note 1.  
 Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective business segment are included in determining its operating results. Other
revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular business segment are allocated based upon the Firm s allocation methodologies, generally based on each business segment s respective net revenues,  non-interest  expenses or other relevant measures.    As a result of revenues and expenses from
transactions with other operating segments being treated as transactions with external parties, the Firm includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the consolidated results.

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Selected Financial Information by Business Segment   

1. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI and, when realized, in Trading revenues. In 2015 and in 2014, the realized and unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded in Trading revenues.
See Notes 2 and 15 for further information.     

2. 
   Effective July 1, 2016, the Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments entered into an
agreement, whereby Institutional Securities assumed management of Wealth Management s fixed income client-driven trading activities and employees. Institutional Securities now pays fees to Wealth Management based on distribution activity
(collectively, the  Fixed Income Integration ). Prior periods have not been recast for this new intersegment agreement due to immateriality.     

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

4. 
   The Firm s effective tax rate from continuing operations included net discrete tax benefits of $68 million in
2016, primarily within Institutional Securities. The Firm s effective tax rate from continuing operations included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million in 2015 within Institutional Securities. The Firm s effective tax rate from
continuing operations included net discrete tax benefits of $1,390 million and $839 million in 2014 within Wealth Management and Institutional Securities business segments, respectively (see Note 20).     

5. 
   The Institutional Securities business segment Net loss in 2014 was primarily driven by higher legal expenses (see Note
12).     

6. 
   In September 2014, the Firm sold a retail property space resulting in a gain on sale of $141 million (within
Institutional Securities $84 million, Wealth Management $40 million and Investment Management $17 million), which was included within Other revenues on the consolidated income statements.     
    
   Total Assets by Business Segment       

1. 
   During 2015, the Firm deconsolidated approximately $244 million in net assets previously attributable to
nonredeemable noncontrolling interests that were primarily related to or associated with real estate funds sponsored by the Firm (see Note 13).     

2. 
   Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the business segments.     
  Geographic Information     The Firm
operates in both U.S. and  non-U.S.  markets. The Firm s  non-U.S.  business activities are principally conducted and managed through EMEA and Asia-Pacific locations.
The net revenues disclosed in the following table reflect the regional view of the Firm s consolidated net revenues on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:  
  Institutional Securities:     advisory and equity underwriting client location, debt
underwriting revenue recording location, sales and trading trading desk location.     Wealth
Management:     Wealth Management representatives operate in the Americas.     Investment
Management:     client location, except certain  closed-end  funds, which are based on asset location.  
  Net Revenues by Region       

Total Assets by Region       
      22. Parent Company   
  Parent Company Only Condensed Income Statements and Comprehensive Income Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Parent Company Only Condensed Balance Sheets   

Parent Company Only Condensed Cash Flow Statements   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information   
 Cash payments for interest were  $3,650     million , $3,959 million and $3,652 million for  2016 , 2015
and 2014, respectively.    Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were  $  201     million ,
$255 million and $187 million for  2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively.     Transactions with Subsidiaries   
 The Parent Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured
lines of credit and contractual obligations on certain of its consolidated subsidiaries.     Parent Company s Long-Term Borrowings   
   
    Guarantees   
 In the normal course of its business, the Parent Company guarantees certain of its subsidiaries  obligations under derivative and other
financial arrangements. The Parent Company records Trading assets and Trading liabilities, which include derivative contracts, at fair value on its condensed balance sheets.  
 The Parent Company also, in the normal course of its business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries
for taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, and certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the
tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Parent Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum

potential amount of future payments that the Parent Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Parent Company has not recorded any contingent
liability in its condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.  
 The Parent Company has issued guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to various U.S. and  non-U.S. 
exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Parent Company may be required to pay the financial obligations of its subsidiaries related to business transacted on or
with the exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Parent Company has not recorded any contingent liability in its condensed financial statements for these
arrangements and believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements are remote.    The Parent Company
guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments and warrants totaled $11.5 billion and $9.1 billion at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. In connection with
subsidiary lease obligations, the Parent Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. The Parent Company had $1.1 billion of guarantees outstanding under subsidiary lease obligations, primarily in the U.K. at both December 31, 2016
and December 31, 2015.     Finance Subsidiary   
 The Parent Company fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by Morgan Stanley Finance LLC, a 100%-owned finance subsidiary.
    Resolution and Recovery Planning   
 At December 31, 2016, Advances to subsidiaries that met certain criteria were pledged to certain subsidiaries.  

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

23. Quarterly Results (Unaudited)   

1. 
   In 2016, in accordance with the early adoption of a provision of the accounting update  Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities , unrealized DVA gains (losses) are recorded within OCI and, when realized, in Trading revenues. In 2015, the realized and unrealized DVA gains (losses) were recorded in Trading revenues.

2. 
   The fourth quarter of 2016 included net discrete tax benefits of $135 million, primarily related to the
remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination (see Note 20).     

3. 
   During the fourth quarter of 2016, net revenues included losses of approximately $60 million on sales and
markdowns of legacy limited partnership investments in third-party-sponsored funds within the Investment Management business segment. The fourth quarter of 2016 also included a $70 million provision within the Wealth Management business segment
related to certain brokerage service reporting activities.     

4. 
   The first quarter of 2015 included net discrete tax benefits of $564 million, primarily associated with the
repatriation of  non-U.S.  earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated due to an internal restructuring to simplify the Firm s legal entity organization in the U.K. (see Note 20).

5. 
   During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Firm incurred specific severance costs of approximately $155 million, which
is included in Compensation and benefits expenses in the consolidated income statements, associated with the Firm s restructuring actions, which were recorded in the business segments, approximately, as follows: Institutional Securities:
$125 million, Wealth Management: $20 million and Investment Management: $10 million.     

6. 
   Summation of the quarters  earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect
of the number of shares and share equivalents throughout the year.     

24. Subsequent Events   
 The Firm has evaluated subsequent events for adjustment to or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements through the date of this
report and has not identified any recordable or disclosable events, not otherwise reported in these consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

Table of Contents  

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)  
  Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Income   

1. 
   Amounts include primarily U.S. balances.     

2. 
   Includes fees paid on Securities borrowed.     

3. 
   Trading assets, net of Trading liabilities exclude  non-interest  earning assets
and  non-interest  bearing liabilities, such as equity securities.     

4. 
   Includes interest from customer receivables and cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal
and other regulations or requirements.     

5. 
   The Firm also issues structured notes that have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, indices, currencies or commodities, which are recorded within Trading revenues (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).     

6. 
   Includes fees received on Securities loaned.     

7. 
   Includes fees received from prime brokerage customers for stock loan transactions incurred to cover customers 
short positions.     

Table of Contents  

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)  
  Rate/Volume Analysis   

Effect of Volume and Rate Changes on Net Interest Income   

Table of Contents  

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)   

Deposits       

1. 
   In 2016 and 2015, the Firm calculated its average balances based upon daily amounts. In 2014, the Firm calculated its
average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances were unavailable,  month-end  balances were used.     

2. 
   The Firm s deposits were primarily held in U.S. offices.     
  Ratios       

1. 
   Percentage is based on net income applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average
common equity.     

2. 
   Percentage is based on net income as a percentage of average total equity.     

3. 
   Percentage is based on dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.
       Short-Term Borrowings       

1. 
   In 2016 and 2015, the Firm calculated its average balances based upon daily amounts. In 2014, the Firm calculated its
average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances were unavailable,  month-end  balances were used.     

2. 
   At December 31, 2016, the differences between period end balances and average balances were not significant.

3. 
   The weighted average interest rate was calculated using (a) interest expense incurred on all securities sold under
agreements to repurchase and securities loaned transactions, whether or not such transactions were reported in the consolidated balance sheets and (b) net average or period-end balances when applicable. In addition, off-balance sheet   securities-for-securities   transactions were not included in the average or period-end balances.     
  Cross-Border Outstandings     Cross-border
outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC ) regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash, customer and other receivables, securities purchased under
agreements to resell, securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude commitments. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed are presented based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for
related securities collateral held. For information regarding the Firm s country risk exposure, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Credit Risk Country Risk Exposure  in Part
II, Item 7A.    The following tables set forth cross-border outstandings for each country, excluding derivative exposure, in which
cross-border outstandings exceed 1% of the Firm s consolidated assets or 20% of the Firm s total capital, whichever is less, at December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, in accordance with the
FFIEC guidelines:      

Table of Contents  

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)   

For cross-border exposure including derivative contracts that exceeds 0.75% but does not exceed 1% of the
Firm s consolidated assets, South Korea, Singapore and Brazil had a total cross-border exposure of $22,927 million at December 31, 2016; South Korea, Spain and Australia had a total cross-border exposure of $20,527 million at
December 31, 2015; and Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Australia had a total cross-border exposure of $28,637 million at December 31, 2014.

Table of Contents  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure     None.      
 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures      Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   
 Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we
conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule  13a-15(e).  Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.  
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Firm s internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).    Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that:  

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Firm;         

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Firm s management and directors; and     

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.       Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.    Management assessed the effectiveness of
the Firm s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control-Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on management s assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Firm maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016.  
 The Firm s independent registered public accounting firm has audited and issued a report on the Firm s internal control over
financial reporting, which appears below.  

Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:  
 We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Firm ) as of
December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Firm s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Firm s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.    A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of
directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally

accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.    Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 In our opinion, the Firm maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2016, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  
 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
financial statements of the Firm as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 and our report dated February 27, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
   New York, New York    February 27, 2017  

Table of Contents  

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 No change in the Firm s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule  13a-15(f))  occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Firm s internal control over financial reporting.  
    Item 9B. Other Information   
 None.       Part III
       Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
 Information relating to the Firm s directors and nominees in the Firm s definitive proxy statement for its 2017 annual meeting of
shareholders ( Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement ) is incorporated by reference herein.    Information relating to the
Firm s executive officers is contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report under  Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.   
 Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on our internet site,
   www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance/ethics.html   . We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required
to be disclosed by the rules of either the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the New York Stock Exchange LLC, on our internet site.      
 Item 11. Executive Compensation     Information relating to director and executive officer compensation in
Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters     Information relating to equity compensation plans and security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.       Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     Information regarding certain relationships and related
transactions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.    Information regarding director independence in
Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.       Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and
Services     Information regarding principal accountant fees and services in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein.  

Table of Contents  

Part IV   
        Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
      Documents filed as part of this report        

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in this Annual Report on Form  10-K  are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.         

An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page
 E-1  and is incorporated by reference herein.          Item 16. Form  10-K  Summary     None.  

Table of Contents  

Signatures   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 27, 2017.       

MORGAN STANLEY 
  (REGISTRANT)    

By: 
   
 / S / J AMES  P. G ORMAN   

(James P. Gorman)  
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer    
 
   POWER OF ATTORNEY   
 We, the undersigned, hereby severally constitute Jonathan Pruzan, Eric F. Grossman and Martin M. Cohen, and each of them singly, our true and
lawful attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual Report on Form  10-K  filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form  10-K.   
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 27 th  day of February, 2017.      

Signature   
    
    Title    

/ S / J AMES  P. G ORMAN  
  (James P. Gorman)   
    
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
 (Principal Executive Officer)   

/ S / J ONATHAN  P RUZAN  
  (Jonathan Pruzan)   
    
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
 (Principal Financial Officer)   

/ S / P AUL  C. W IRTH  
  (Paul C. Wirth)   
    
   Deputy Chief Financial Officer 
 (Principal Accounting Officer)   

/ S / E RSKINE  B. B OWLES  
  (Erskine B. Bowles)   
    
  Director   

/ S / A LISTAIR  D ARLING  
  (Alistair Darling)   
    
  Director   

/ S / T HOMAS  H. G LOCER  
  (Thomas H. Glocer)   
    
  Director   

/ S / R OBERT  H. H ERZ  
  (Robert H. Herz)   
    
  Director   

/ S / N OBUYUKI  H IRANO  
  (Nobuyuki Hirano)   
    
  Director   

/ S / K LAUS  K LEINFELD  
  (Klaus Kleinfeld)   
    
  Director   

/ S / J AMI  M ISCIK  
  (Jami Miscik)   
    
  Director   

/ S / D ENNIS  M. N ALLY  
  (Dennis M. Nally)   
    
  Director    

Table of Contents  

Signature   
    
    Title    

/ S / D ONALD  T. N ICOLAISEN  
  (Donald T. Nicolaisen)   
    
  Director   

/ S / H UTHAM  S. O LAYAN  
  (Hutham S. Olayan)   
    
  Director   

/ S / J AMES  W. O WENS  
  (James W. Owens)   
    
  Director   

/ S / R YOSUKE  T AMAKOSHI  
  (Ryosuke Tamakoshi)   
    
  Director   

/ S / P ERRY  M. T RAQUINA  
  (Perry M. Traquina)   
    
  Director   

/ S / R AYFORD  W ILKINS , J R . 
  (Rayford Wilkins, Jr.)   
    
  Director   

Table of Contents  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
 Washington, D.C. 20549    EXHIBITS
TO FORM  10-K     For the year ended December 31, 2016  
 Commission File  No. 1-11758   

Table of Contents  

     Exhibit Index   
 Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan
Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Exchange Act and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or
reports. Morgan Stanley s Exchange Act file number is  1-11758.  The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a predecessor company ( MSG ), was
 1-9085.  (1)       

(1) 
   For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to  The Bank of New York  mean in some instances the
entity successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association; references to  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to
Chemical Bank; references to  J.P. Morgan Trust Company, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago.     
      E-1  

Table of Contents  

Exhibit
No.      
    
    Description    

4.8  
    
 Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit  4-ww  to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form
 S-3/A   (No. 333-117752)).   

4.9  
    
 Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form  8-K 
dated October 12, 2006).  

4.10  
    
 Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).  

4.11  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series A Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form  8-A  dated July 5, 2006).  

4.12  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.11 hereto).  

4.13  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series E Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 2.6 to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form  8-A  dated September 27, 2013).  

4.14  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series E (included in Exhibit 4.13 hereto).  

4.15  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series F Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form  8-A  dated December 9, 2013).  

4.16  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series F (included in Exhibit 4.15 hereto).  

4.17  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series G Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form  8-A  dated April 28, 2014).  

4.18  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing 6.625%  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series G (included in Exhibit 4.17 hereto).  

4.19  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series H Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 4.6 to Morgan
Stanley s Current Report on Form  8-K  dated April 29, 2014).  

4.20  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series H (included in Exhibit 4.19 hereto).  

4.21  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series I Preferred stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan
Stanley s Registration Statement on Form  8-A  dated September 17, 2014).  

4.22  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series I (included in Exhibit 4.21 hereto).  

4.23  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series J Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan
Stanley s Current Report on Form  8-K  dated March 18, 2015).  

4.24  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series J (included in Exhibit 4.23 hereto).  

4.25  
    
 Form of Deposit Agreement among Morgan Stanley, The Bank of New York Mellon and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts representing interests in the Series K Preferred Stock described therein (Exhibit 2.4 to Morgan
Stanley s Current Report on Form  8-A  dated January 30, 2017).  

4.26  
    
 Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing   Fixed-to-Floating   Rate  Non-Cumulative  Preferred Stock,
Series K (included in Exhibit 4.25 hereto).   
      E-2  

Table of Contents  

E-3  

Table of Contents  

E-4  

Table of Contents  

* 
   Filed herewith.     

** 
   Furnished herewith.     

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form  10-K  pursuant to Item 15(b).     
      E-5  

<EX-3.1>
 2
 d328282dex31.htm
 EX-3.1

EX-3.1 

EXHIBIT 3.1   
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    The present name of the corporation is Morgan Stanley. The corporation was incorporated under the name  Sears Acquisition
Corporation  by the filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 1, 1981. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, which restates and
integrates and also further amends the provisions of the corporation s Certificate of Incorporation, was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware by the requisite vote of the holders of the outstanding stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon at a meeting which was called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware. The Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation is hereby amended, integrated and restated to read in its entirety as follows:  
  ARTICLE I       Name
     The name of the Corporation (which is hereafter referred to as the  Corporation ) is Morgan Stanley.  
  ARTICLE II       Address
     The address of the Corporation s registered office in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange
Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation s registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.  
  ARTICLE III       Purpose
     The purpose of the Corporation shall be to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and
incorporated under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.     ARTICLE IV   
   Capitalization      The
total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is three billion five hundred thirty million (3,530,000,000), consisting of thirty million (30,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share
(hereinafter referred to as  Preferred Stock ), and three billion five hundred million (3,500,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (hereinafter referred to as  Common Stock ).  

The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The Board of Directors
is hereby authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as a  Preferred Stock Designation ), to
establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. The
authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:    (1)
The designation of the series, which may be by distinguishing number, letter or title.    (2) The number of shares of the series, which
number the Board of Directors may thereafter (except where otherwise provided in the Preferred Stock Designation) increase or decrease (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding).  
 (3) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in respect of dividends, and whether such dividends, if any,
shall be cumulative or noncumulative.    (4) Dates at which dividends, if any, shall be payable.  
 (5) The redemption rights and price or prices, if any, for shares of the series.  
 (6) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of the series.  
 (7) The amounts payable on, and the preferences, if any, of shares of the series in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.    (8) Whether the shares of the series shall be convertible into or
exchangeable for shares of any other class or series, or any other security, of the Corporation or any other corporation, and, if so, the specification of such other class or series of such other security, the conversion or exchange price or prices
or rate or rates, any adjustments thereof, the date or dates at which such shares shall be convertible or exchangeable and all other terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange may be made.  
 (9) Restrictions on the issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series.  
 (10) The voting rights, if any, of the holders of shares of the series.  
 The Common Stock shall be subject to the express terms of the Preferred Stock and any series thereof. Except as may be provided in this
Certificate of Incorporation or in a Preferred Stock Designation or by applicable law, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each such share upon all questions presented to the stockholders, the Common Stock shall
have the exclusive right to vote for the election of directors and for all other  
      2  

purposes, and holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote. The holders of the shares of Common Stock
shall at all times, except as otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or as required by law, vote as one class, together with the holders of any other class or series of stock of the Corporation accorded such general voting rights.
   The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share of its stock is registered as the owner thereof for all
purposes and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice thereof, except as expressly provided by applicable law.  
 The voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions, of the Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, are set forth in  Exhibit A  hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.  
  ARTICLE V       By-Laws
     In furtherance of, and not in limitation of, the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized and
empowered:      (1) to adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation;  provided, however,  that the Bylaws adopted by the
Board of Directors under the powers hereby conferred may be amended or repealed by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders having voting power with respect thereto; and    
 (2) from time to time to determine whether and to what extent, and at what times and places, and under what conditions and regulations, the
accounts and books of the Corporation, or any of them, shall be open to inspection of stockholders; and, except as so determined or as expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or in any Preferred Stock Designation, no stockholder
shall have any right to inspect any account, book or document of the Corporation other than such rights as may be conferred by applicable law.  
 The Corporation may in its Bylaws confer powers upon the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and
authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by applicable law.     ARTICLE VI   
   Action of Stockholders    
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of
Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing in
lieu of a meeting of such stockholders.  
      3  

ARTICLE VII   
   Board of Directors    
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate
of Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed in such manner as prescribed in the Bylaws of the Corporation and may be increased or decreased from time to
time in such manner as prescribed by the Bylaws.    Unless and except to the extent that the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so require, the
election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.    The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders
of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation, shall be elected annually at each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to hold office for a term expiring at the
next annual meeting of stockholders, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.  
 Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in this Certificate
of Incorporation, to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase
in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the
next annual meeting of stockholders, and until such director s successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent
director.    Any director may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause.  
  ARTICLE VIII   
   Indemnification    
 Each person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from
time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the
Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect. The Corporation may, by action of the Board of
Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation, to directors, officers, employees or agents of a subsidiary, and to each person serving as a director, officer, partner, member,
employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, at the request of the Corporation, with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers
of the Corporation.  
      4  

The Corporation shall be required to indemnify any person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part
thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person s claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise by the Corporation. Without limiting the
generality or the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person which provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in this Article VIII. Any amendment or repeal of this Article
VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.  
  ARTICLE IX   
   Directors  Liability    
 A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of
fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (1) for any breach of the director s duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (2) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a
knowing violation of law, (3) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (4) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Any amendment or repeal of this Article
IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.  
 If the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware shall be amended, to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the
liability of directors, then a director of the Corporation, in addition to the circumstances in which he is not liable immediately prior to such amendment, shall be free of liability to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware, as so amended.     ARTICLE X   
   Amendments      Except
as may be expressly provided in this Certificate of Incorporation, the Corporation reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation or a Preferred
Stock Designation, and any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force may be added or inserted, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed herein or by applicable law, and all rights, preferences and
privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this
Article X; provided, however, that any amendment or repeal of Article VIII or Article IX of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing thereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to
such amendment or repeal, and provided further that no Preferred Stock Designation shall be amended after the issuance of any shares of the series of Preferred Stock created thereby, except in accordance with the terms of such Preferred Stock
Designation and the requirements of applicable law.  
      5  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 9 th  day of April, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By:     
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  

Name:     
   
 Martin M. Cohen  

Office: 
   
   Vice President and Counsel   and Assistant
Secretary   

6  

Exhibit A   
 DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES A  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 The designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A ( Series A ) are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation.  The distinctive
serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A.  Each share of Series A shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A, except as to the respective dates
from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.    2.
 Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of Series A shall be 46,000. Shares of Series A that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled
and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series A by any subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.  Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Series A:  
 (a)  Allowable Capital  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (b)  Board of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (c)  Bylaws  means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.  
 (d)  Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which
banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.  
 (e)  Calculation Agent  means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such
agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when
the Series A is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.  

(f)  Capital Units  means the outstanding Capital Units of the
Corporation and of Morgan Stanley Finance plc. Each Capital Unit consists of a subordinated debenture issued by Morgan Stanley Finance plc and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis, and a related purchase contract issued by the
Corporation that requires the holder to purchase one depositary share representing ownership of multiple shares of the Corporation s cumulative preferred stock.  
 (g)  Capital Units Cumulative Preferred Stock  means shares, if any, of the Corporation s 8.03% Cumulative
Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a stated value $200 per share, which the Corporation may issue under the terms of the outstanding Capital Units.  
 (h)  Certificate of Designation  means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series A, as it may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.    (i)  Certification of Incorporation  shall mean the amended and restated
certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (j)  Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (k)  Dividend Determination Date  means, for each Dividend Period, the second London Business Day immediately
preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (l)  Dividend Payment Date  means
January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year.    (m)  Dividend Period 
has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    (n)  Dividend Record Date  has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a).    (o)  Junior Stock  means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks
junior to Series A as to the payment of dividends. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.    (p)  LIBOR  has the
meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    (q)  Liquidation Preference  has the meaning set forth in
Section 5(b).    (r)  London Business Day  means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)
 Nonpayment  has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).  
      A-2  

(t)  Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation that ranks equally with the Series A in the payment of dividends.    (u)  Preferred Stock  means any
and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series A.    (v)  Preferred Stock Directors 
has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).    (w)  Regulations  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.
   (x)  Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (y)  Tier 1 Capital Equivalent  has the meaning set forth in Section 7.  
 (z)  Voting Preferred Stock  means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally
with the Series A as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Capital Units Cumulative
Preferred Stock, if issued, and any class or series of cumulative Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of
the shares of Series A and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends.   
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series A will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the original issue date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on October 15, 2006. These dividends will accrue, with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below), on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) three-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR (as defined below) on the related Dividend Determination Date plus .70% or (2) 4%. In the event that the Corporation issues
additional shares of Series A after the original issue date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the original issue date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares
are issued.    Dividends that are payable on Series A on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of
Series A as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date
fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a  Dividend Record Date ). Any such day that is a Dividend
Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.  
      A-3  

A  Dividend Period  is the period from and including a Dividend Payment
Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series A issued on the original issue date will commence on and include the original issue date of
the Series A and will end on and exclude the October 15, 2006 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series A issued after the original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such
other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series A will be computed by
the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period will be calculated from the original issue date. If any date on which dividends would
otherwise be payable is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be the immediately preceding day that
is a Business Day.    For any Dividend Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Page 3750, or any successor page, on Moneyline Telerate Inc., or any successor service, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that
Dividend Determination Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London
offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for
a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is
representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two
quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York
City, as selected by the Calculation Agent after consultation with the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount
that is  
      A-4  

representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend
Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.  
 The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any
Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
 Holders of Series A shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series A as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series A will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series A payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series A are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series A will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series A, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series A (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series A, if required) and (iii) except as described in the following sentence, at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. The Series A will rank junior as to payment of dividends, but on a parity as to amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
with any Capital Units Cumulative Preferred Stock, any other class or series of cumulative Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future and any other class or series of Preferred Stock that the Corporation may issue in the future
that is expressly stated to be senior as to payment of dividends, but on a parity as to amounts payable upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Series A.  
      A-5  

So long as any share of Series A remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution
shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest
completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series A has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:  

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series A and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series A and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series A and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series A, from time to time out of any funds legally available for
such payment, and the Series A shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
      A-6  

5.  Liquidation Rights.   
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all
liabilities, if any, to creditors of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior
to the Series A as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such
distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have
received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in
Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series A and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series A as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series A
and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation
on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series A and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an
amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).    (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution, the holders of other stock of the Corporation
shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Series A may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to July 15, 2011. On or after
July 15, 2011, subject to obtaining any then required regulatory approval, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at  
      A-7  

any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share,
together (except as otherwise provided herein below), for the purposes of the redemption price only, with an amount equal to dividends accrued but unpaid for the then current Dividend Period at the rate set forth in Section 4(a) to, but
excluding, the date fixed for redemption (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared for that Dividend Period). The redemption price for any shares of Series A shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares
against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any accrued and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for
a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment
Date as provided in Section 4 above.    (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series A will not be subject to any mandatory
redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series A will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series A.  
 (c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing
interests in the Series A are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series A at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each
such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series A to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from
such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to
the holder thereof.  
      A-8  

(e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly
given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of
any shares of Series A so called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the
redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date
cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
   7.  Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes.  If both (i) and (ii) below occur:     
 (i) after June 26, 2006, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or
guidance (together,  Regulations ) relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to
consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body
having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or
its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital
described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as  Tier 1 Capital Equivalent ), and    (ii)
the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series A for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series A in Allowable Capital or Tier 1
Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under
such Regulations,    then, upon such affirmative election, the Series A shall be convertible at the Corporation s option into a new
series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially  
      A-9  

identical to those of the Series A, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof,
as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as
defined below),  provided  that the Corporation shall not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers,
and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, taken as a whole.    As used above, the term
 Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions  means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing),
required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital
Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.    The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series A of any
election to qualify the Series A for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series A into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the
effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the
Corporation. Any conversion of the Series A pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.  
 Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series A shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares
into any other securities.      8.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The holders of Series A shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from to time required by law.    (b)  Right To Elect
Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series A, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for
consecutive dividend periods (a  Nonpayment ), the  
      A-10  

holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two
additional members of the Board of Directors (the  Preferred Stock Directors ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock
Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series A or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice,
signed by the requisite holders of Series A or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will
continue until dividends on the shares of the Series A and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at
least four regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend
periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series A and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series A and all other
holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of
directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to
pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A together
with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock
Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the
outstanding shares of Series A and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
      A-11  

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series A are
outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series A with respect to the distribution of assets upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series A . Any amendment, alteration or
repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of
the Series A, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any
consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series A remain outstanding or, in the case of
any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such
shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the
holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A, taken as a whole;     provided ,
 however , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series A or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of
Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series A with respect to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and ranking senior to or equally with the Series A with respect to the payment of dividends
will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series A. In addition, any conversion of the Series A
pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 8(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all  
      A-12  

other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series A for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall
vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series A, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series A that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series A shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series A shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series A (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series A is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series A are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    9.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series A may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series A as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
      A-13  

10.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series A shall be sufficiently
given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
   11.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series A shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the
Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 12.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series A shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      A-14  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES B
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the
Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on September 28, 2008, the creation of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation
preference $1,000 per share (  Series B  ) of the Corporation was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series B, in
addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.
 Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every
other share of Series B, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  
 2.      Number of Shares     . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 6,045,750. Shares of Series B
that are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into Common Stock or another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided that this
Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series B by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.    3.
 Dividends .    (a)      Rate     . Holders of shares of Series B shall be entitled to receive, only when, as
and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal
to 10%. Declared dividends on the Series B shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than
the initial Dividend Period), and shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment
Date  ). If any date on which dividends would otherwise  

be payable shall not be a Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding
day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Dividend Payment Date, and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next
succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be
closed.    Dividends on the Series B shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not
declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series B payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series B are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date
shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend Period   means the period
from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of the Series B and shall end on but
exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series B shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)      Priority of Dividends   .   The Series B will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below)
and any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series B, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series B (issued with
the requisite consent of the Holders of the Series B, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend  
      -2-  

Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement
with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series
of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock
or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the
redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the
same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the
Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.      When dividends are
not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling
within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend
payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each
other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.      Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash,
securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior
to the Series B, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
     4.      Liquidation Rights   .    
 (a)      Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation.      In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction
of all liabilities, if  
      -3-  

any, to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or      pari
passu      with the Series B in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and
any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series B as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that
have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any
other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)      Partial
Payment.      If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series B and
all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the Holders of Series B and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid      pro rata     
in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series B and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation
shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case
of any holder of stock other than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)      Residual Distributions.      If the Liquidation Preference on the Series B and any other shares of the
Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to
their respective rights and preferences.    (d)      Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation.     
For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property
for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 5.  Voting Rights.   
      -4-  

(a)      General   .   The Holders of Series B shall not have any voting
rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
 (b)      Right to Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events   .   If and whenever dividends on any shares of the
Series B, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares,
voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock
Directors        provided      that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which
the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and      provided further      that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two
Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least
20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at
such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice, signed
by the requisite holders of Series B or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 16 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will continue
until dividends on the shares of the Series B and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at least four
regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series B and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series B and all other holders of Voting
Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the
Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any
dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time
without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights
described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any  
      -5-  

vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in
office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);
 provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that
listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series B as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the
Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ), if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the
extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to
the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.    (c)      Other Voting Rights   .   So long as any
shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series B and any Voting
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for
effecting or validating:    (i)      Authorization of Senior Stock   .   Any amendment or alteration
of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with
respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
 (ii)        Amendment of Series B   .   Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of
the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a
whole; or  
      -6-  

(iii)      Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and
Consolidations   .   Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B
remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as
permitted by clause (x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the
holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole;     provided, however , that for all
purposes of this Section 5(c), neither the issuance of any Series B in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (as defined below) as in effect on the date hereof nor the creation and issuance, or an increase in the
authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and neither will require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of
Series B. In addition, any conversion of the Series B pursuant hereto shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series B shall have any
voting rights with respect to any binding share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which
a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series B for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise
entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the
proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status
and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
      -7-  

(d)      Changes for Clarification   .   Without the consent of the
holders of the Series B, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any
terms of the Series B:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this
Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters
or questions arising with respect to the Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    (e)
     Procedures for Voting and Consents   .   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith),
the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized
committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or
other trading facility on which the Series B is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any
matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
 6.  Redemption . The shares of Series B shall not be redeemable.  
 7.  Rank . Any stock of any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:  
 (a) prior to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of
such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the
Series B;    (b) on a parity with shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Series B, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms
thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the
other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series B (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Series B, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and    (c) junior to shares of the Series B, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or classes or series shall be common stock or if  
      -8-  

the Holders of the Series B shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to
the holders of stock of such class or classes or series.    The Series B shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, on a parity with the Series A and any Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional Definitions . As used
herein with respect to Series B:      Capital Stock   of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase,
warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.  
   Cash   means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public
and private debts.      Close of Business   means 5:00 p.m., New York City time.  
   Closing Price   of the Common Stock or any securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, means, as of any date of
determination:    (a) the closing price on that date or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price, of shares of the
Common Stock or such other securities on the New York Stock Exchange on that date; or    (b) if the Common Stock or such other securities
are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other securities are so traded or,
if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price of shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other securities are so traded on
that date; or    (c) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not traded on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the
last quoted bid price on that date for the Common Stock or such other securities in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization; or  
 (d) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not so quoted by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization, the market price of the
Common Stock or such other securities on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking not affiliated with the Corporation retained by the Corporation for this purpose.  
 For the purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the closing price and the last reported sale price of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock  
      -9-  

Exchange shall be such closing price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service;
provided that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing price and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing price and the
last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.      Common Stock   means the common
stock, $0.01 par value, of the Corporation.      Conversion Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as conversion agent for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.  
   Conversion Date   means each of a Mandatory Conversion Date and a  Non-Mandatory 
Conversion Date.      Conversion Price   at any time means for each share of Series B the price equal to $1,000 divided by
the Conversion Rate in effect at such time (initially $31.25).      Conversion Rate   means initially 32 shares of Common
Stock per share of Series B, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.  
   Depositary     means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.    
   DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
   Ex-Dividend Date   means the first date on which the Common Stock trades, regular way, on the relevant exchange, or in the
relevant market from which the Closing Price was obtained, without the right to receive such dividend or distribution.      Fair
Market Value   means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm s-length transaction as determined by the Board of Directors.  
   Full Mandatory Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the first date after the second anniversary
of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning after such second anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable
Conversion Price.  
      -10-  

Fundamental Change   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, of one of the following:    (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13( d) of the
Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of
common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock;    (ii) consummation of any
consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries,
taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive a distribution of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other
than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction;
or    (iii) shares of the Common Stock or shares of any other stock into which the Series B is convertible are not listed for trading on any
United States national securities exchange or cease to be traded in contemplation of a delisting (other than as a result of a transaction described in clause (ii) above);  
  provided ,  however , that a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if at
least 90% of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities
exchange or that will be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change; and  provided ,  further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its
affiliates, a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) or (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a
counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.        Holder   means the
Person in whose name the shares of Series B are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, dividend disbursing agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series B for the purpose of
disbursing dividends and settling conversions and for all other purposes.      Initial Holder   means Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group, Inc.      Issue Date   means the date of original issuance of any share of Series B.  
   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series B as to the payment
of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
      -11-  

Make-Whole Acquisition   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, of one of the following:    (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the
Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of
common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock; or    (ii) consummation of
any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries,
taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive distributions of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other
than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially
own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction;
    provided ,  however , that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by
holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or that will be so traded when issued
or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition; and  provided ,  further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be
deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above. 
      Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price   means the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole
Acquisition. If such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share of Common Stock. If such consideration consists of any property other than cash, the Make-Whole
Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.  
   Mandatory Conversion Date   means a Partial Mandatory Conversion Date or a Full Mandatory Conversion Date.  
   Non-Mandatory Conversion Date   means an Early Conversion Date, a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Date or a Fundamental
Change Conversion Date.      Open of Business   means 9:00 a.m., New York City time.  
      -12-  

Ownership Limit   means a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 0.149 times
the sum, without duplication, of (1) the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock on such date of measurement and (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock to be converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date.  
   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series B in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.      Partial Mandatory Conversion
Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the first date after the first anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning after such first anniversary and
preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price.  
   Person   means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association,
joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.      Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock
of the Corporation, including the Series B.      Reference Price   means the price per share of Common Stock in connection
with a Fundamental Change. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in connection with the Fundamental Change, the Reference Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise the Reference Price shall be the average of the
Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Fundamental Change.  
   Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as registrar for the Series B, and its
successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.      Securities Purchase Agreement   means the
Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2007, between the Corporation and the Investor listed on the signature page thereto.  
   Subsidiary   means with respect to any Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the
voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent (50%) of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more
of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.      Trading Day   means a day on which the
Common Stock (i) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the Close of Business and (ii) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities
exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.  
      -13-  

Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as transfer agent for the Series B, and its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.  
 9.      Early Conversion at the Option of the Holder     . Other than during a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Period, any Holder shall have the right to convert such Holder s shares of Series B, in whole or in part (but in no event less than one share of Series B), at any time prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date (  Early
Conversion  ), into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate, subject to satisfaction of the conversion procedures set forth in Section 10(b). The date of such Early Conversion is referred to herein as the
  Early Conversion Date .     10.  Conversion .  
 (a)  Mandatory Conversion on Mandatory Conversion Date .  
 (i) On the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, one half of the outstanding shares of Series B held by each Holder thereof will mandatorily
convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate;      provided      that to the extent such conversion would result in the number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder
and its affiliates exceeding the Ownership Limit (such shares of Common Stock that would exceed the Ownership Limit, the   Excess Shares  ) the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted on the Partial Mandatory
Conversion Date shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates equal the Ownership Limit; and
     provided further     , that to the extent that there are Excess Shares and shares of Common Stock are issued upon settlement of the equity units sold pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement after the Partial
Mandatory Conversion Date and prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, outstanding shares of Series B held by the Initial Holder will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock (but not greater than the number of Excess Shares) at the then
applicable Conversion Rate provided that the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock
beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates do not exceed the Ownership Limit. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion
of Series B will be treated as the record Holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Partial
Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting
rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.  
      -14-  

(ii) On the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, all of the outstanding shares of Series B will
mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of
Series B will be treated as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory
Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights
to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.  
 (iii) In addition to the number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Section 10(a), if applicable, the Holders on a
Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to any declared and unpaid dividends on the Series B for the most recent Dividend Period ending on a Mandatory Conversion Date to the extent such Holders were the Holders of
record as of the Dividend Record Date for such dividend.    (b)  Conversion Procedures for a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date . To effect
conversion on a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, a Holder who:    (i) holds a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing the
Series B must deliver to DTC the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to DTC s conversion program and, if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e) and, if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any; or    (ii) holds shares of Series B
in certificated form must:    (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Series B certificate or
a facsimile of the conversion notice;    (B) deliver the completed conversion notice and the certificated shares of Series B
to be converted to the Conversion Agent;    (C) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;  
 (D) if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e); and    (E) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any.  
      -15-  

The conversion will be effective on the date on which a Holder has satisfied all of the foregoing
requirements, to the extent applicable, which shall be the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. A Holder will not be required to pay any transfer or similar taxes or duties relating to the issuance or delivery of Common Stock if such Holder
exercises its conversion rights, but such Holder will be required to pay any transfer or similar tax or duty that may be payable relating to any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of Common Stock in a name other than the name of such
Holder. A certificate representing Common Stock will be issued and delivered only after all applicable taxes and duties, if any, payable by the Holder have been paid in full.  
 The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder(s)
of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. No allowance or adjustment, except as set forth in Section 11(a), shall be made in respect of dividends payable to Holders of Common
Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series B shall not be deemed outstanding
for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by
virtue of holding shares of Series B.    In the event that a conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series B representing fewer
than all the shares of Series B held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation shall execute and the Registrar shall countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of
Series B as to which conversion was not effected.    The Corporation shall deliver the shares of Common Stock to which the Holder converting
pursuant to Section 9(a) is entitled on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately following the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.  
 (c)  Conversion Upon Make-Whole Acquisition .  
 (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to convert its shares of Series B (a
  Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion  ) at the then applicable Conversion Rate during the period (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period  ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition (the
  Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock in the form of Make-Whole Shares as set forth
in this Section 10(c). The date of such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is referred to herein as the    Make-Whole  Acquisition Conversion Date .   
      -16-  

(ii) The number of   Make-Whole Shares   shall be determined for
the Series B by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:      
   (A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in
the table above, in which case:    (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock
Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the
higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;  
 (2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no
Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B; and    (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is
less than $25.25 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B.  
 (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above (and the corresponding prices set forth in clauses
(2) and (3) above) are subject to adjustment pursuant hereto and shall be adjusted as of any date the  
      -17-  

Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above) shall equal the Make-Whole Acquisition
Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above), respectively, applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the
adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price adjustments and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Make-Whole Shares in the table above shall also be subject to adjustment in the same
manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section II.    (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the
Corporation anticipates consummating the Make-Whole Acquisition (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice
shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date on which the Make-Whole Acquisition is anticipated to be effected;  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Acquisition
conversion option must be exercised;    (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of
Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and    (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in
connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition.    (iv) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(c)(iii), comply with the procedures set forth in Section 10(b).
   (v) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this
Section 10(c), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it shall remain outstanding but shall not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares.  
 (vi) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in
the Make-Whole Acquisition.  
      -18-  

(vii) In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with
respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the
Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by
the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.    (viii) If a Holder elects to convert its
shares of Series B in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition, such Holder shall not be entitled to an adjusted conversion price pursuant to Section 10(g) to the extent such Make-Whole Acquisition also constitutes a Fundamental Change.  
 (d)      Registration of Common Stock     . In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name
in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Series B should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to
register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records
of the Corporation.    (e)      Dividends     . If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to
convert Series B is prior to the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period in which such Holder is electing to convert, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared
dividends for that Dividend Period. If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such
Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment Date if such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Non-Mandatory
Conversion Date is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date and prior to the Open of Business on the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date, the
Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares of Series B an amount in cash equal to the dividend payable on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series B being converted.  
 (f)      Outstanding Shares of Series B     . Shares of Series B shall cease to be outstanding on the applicable
Conversion Date, subject to the right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series B.  
   (g)  Conversion Upon Fundamental Change  .      
 (i) If the Reference Price in connection with a Fundamental Change is less than the then applicable Conversion Price, a Holder
may convert each share of Series B  
      -19-  

during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at an adjusted conversion
price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $12.625, subject to adjustment as described herein (the   Base Price  ). The date of such conversion upon a Fundamental Change is referred to herein as the
  Fundamental Change Conversion Date .     (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion
Rate of the Series B is adjusted pursuant hereto. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the
adjustment giving rise to the Base Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders shall receive a maximum of 79.2079 shares of Common Stock per share
of Series B (subject to adjustment in a manner inverse to the adjustments to the Base Price).    (iii) On or before the 20 th  day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Fundamental Change (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Fundamental Change
described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall
contain:    (A) the date on which the Fundamental Change is anticipated to be effected; and  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which the Fundamental Change
conversion option must be exercised.    (iv) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change, another written notice shall be
sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;  
 (B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;  
 (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and
   (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Fundamental Change.
 
      -20-  

(v) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(g)(iv), comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 10(b).    (vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change pursuant
to this Section 10(g), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it will remain outstanding but shall not thereafter be entitled to convert in accordance with Section 10(g).  
 (vii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted
conversion price following the Fundamental Change.    (viii) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
effected with respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion
Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a
conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected.    (ix) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in
connection with a Fundamental Change, such Holder shall not be entitled to Make-Whole Shares pursuant to Section 10(c) to the extent such Fundamental Change also constitutes a Make-Whole Acquisition.  
 (h) A Holder cannot effect both a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion and a Fundamental Change Conversion with respect to a share of Series B.
   (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Certificate of Designations, a Holder of shares of Series B shall not, for a period
of 35 calendar days after any Conversion Date, sell any shares of Common Stock or other equity securities it receives upon conversion of the shares it converted on such Conversion Date.  
 11.  Anti-Dilution Adjustments .  
      -21-  

(a) The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Corporation as follows:  
 (i) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, issues shares of Common Stock as a dividend
or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination in respect of the Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:  
   
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or combination, as
applicable;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as
applicable;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share
combination, as applicable; and  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as applicable.  
   The Corporation will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in treasury
by the Corporation.    (ii) Except as otherwise provided for by Section 11(a)(iv) below, if the Corporation, at any time or from time
to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the Record Date of
such distribution to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Record Date of such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be
adjusted based on the following formula:      
 
      -22-  

where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

X  
    
 = 
    
 the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants; and  

Y  
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants divided by the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on
the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.  
   To the extent that shares of common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the
expiration or termination of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the distribution of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of
the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.    In determining the aggregate price payable to exercise such
rights or warrants, there shall be taken into account any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  
      -23-  

(iii) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 11(a)(i) above), evidences
of its indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Capital Stock or other securities, but excluding (i) dividends or distributions as to which an adjustment under Section 11(a)(i),
Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 11(a)(iv) hereof shall apply, (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in Cash and (iii) Spin-Offs to which the provision set forth below in this Section 11(a)(iii) shall apply (any of
such shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Common Stock or other securities, hereinafter in this Section 11(a)(iii) called the   Distributed Property  ),
then, in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   Where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and  

FMV  
    
 = 
    
 the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) of the portion of Distributed Property with respect to each outstanding share of Common Stock on the Record Date for such
distribution.  
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the
Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall
distribute to each Holder on the date the Distributed Property is distributed to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Distributed Property such Holder would have received had
such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the record date fixed for determination for stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any
distribution for purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it shall in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the
Closing Prices of the Common Stock for purposes of calculating SP 0  in the formula in this Section 11(a)(iii).  
      -24-  

With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii) where there has been a
payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock consisting of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (a
  Spin-Off  ), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Close of Business on the tenth Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
     
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the
Spin-Off;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect from and after the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin
Off;  

FMV  
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Capital Stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following,
and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; and  

MP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.  
   Such adjustment shall occur on the 10 th  Trading Day
immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off (it being agreed that notwithstanding Section 9(a), the Holder of the Series B shall not be entitled to convert the Series B pursuant to an Early Conversion prior to such
10 th  Trading Day).    For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii),
Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 11(a)(iii) is applicable that also includes shares of common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common
Stock to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock
or rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 11(a)(iii) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by
(2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 11(a)(i) and 11(a)(ii)
hereof with respect to such dividend or distribution  
      -25-  

shall then be made), except (A) the Close of Business on the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for  the Close of Business on the Record Date, 
 the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date,   after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share
split or share combination  and  the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such
dividend or distribution shall not be deemed  outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) hereof.  
 (iv) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes rights or warrants to all
holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for, purchase or convert into shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a
specified event or events (  Trigger Event  ): (x) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (y) are not exercisable; and (z) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be
deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 11(a)(iii) above, (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 11(a)(iii) above will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event and a distribution
or deemed distribution under the terms of such rights or warrants at which time an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made in the same manner as provided for under Section 11(a)(iii) above. If any such
rights or warrants are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event
shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition,
in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate under this Section 11(a)(iv) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon
such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common
Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that
shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued.  
      -26-  

(v) (1) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, makes a regular, quarterly Cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period that exceeds $0.27 (the   Initial Dividend Threshold  ), the Conversion Rate
shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C  
    
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock in excess of the Initial Dividend Threshold.  
     The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion
Rate;  provided  that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (1) or (2) of this Section 11(a)(v).    
 (2) If the Corporation pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or
substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  
 
      -27-  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C  
    
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of common Stock  
   (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the portion of the Cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common
Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall distribute to each Holder on the date the Cash dividend or distribution is
paid to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the
Record Date for such dividend or distribution. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been
declared.    (4) For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this Section 11(a)(v), in the event of any reclassification of the Common
Stock, as a result of which the Series B becomes convertible into more than one class of Common Stock, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required pursuant to this Section 11(a)(v), references in this Section to one share of Common
Stock or Closing Price of one share of Common Stock shall be deemed to refer to a unit or to the price of a unit consisting of the number of shares of each class of Common Stock into which the Series B is then convertible equal to the numbers of
shares of such class issued in respect of one share of Common Stock in such reclassification. The above provisions of this paragraph shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications.  
 (vi) If the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment of Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange
offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where such Cash and the value of any such other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day next succeeding the last date (the  expiration date ) on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following
formula:      
 
      -28-  

Where      

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

AC  
    
 = 
    
 the aggregate value of all Cash and any other consideration (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) paid or payable for shares purchased in such tender or exchange offer;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires;  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the date such tender or exchange offer expires (after giving effect to such tender offer or exchange offer); and  

SP 1   
    
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day next succeeding the expiration date.  
   If the Corporation or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender
or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that had been effected. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11(a)(vi) with respect to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this
Section 11(a)(vi).    (vii) For purposes of this Section 11(a) the term   Record Date   shall mean, with respect to
any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted
into any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or
otherwise).  
      -29-  

(viii) If application of the formulas provided in Sections 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii), 11(a)(iii),
11(a)(iv), 11(a)(v) or 11(a)(vi) above would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment (other than a readjustment as described in such sections) to the Conversion Rate shall be made except in the case of a share split or combination
of the Common Stock.    (ix) If one or more events occur requiring an adjustment be made to the Conversion Rate for a particular period,
adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors to reflect the combined impact of such Conversion Rate adjustments, as set out in this Section 11(a), during such period.  
 (x) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing clauses in this Section II, no adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless the
adjustment would result in a change in the Conversion Rate of at least 1.00%;      provided      ,       however     , that any adjustment which by reason of this Section 11(a)(x) is not
required to be made shall be carried forward and the Corporation shall make such adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1.00%, within one year of the first such adjustment carried forward or in connection with any
conversion of Series B. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.  
 No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made (i) for issuances of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan for
reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation s securities or the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan, (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or
rights to purchase shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of, or assumed by, the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series B was first issued, (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock, (v) for repurchases of shares of common
Stock in open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions, or (vi) for accumulated and unpaid dividends, other than as expressly contemplated by Section 11(a)(i).  
 No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made pursuant to Section 11(a)(i) through (ix) above for a transaction if Holders are
permitted to participate in the transaction without conversion, concurrently with the holders of Common Stock, on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in good faith to be fair and appropriate in light of
the basis and notice to holders of Common Stock participating in the transaction.    Whenever a provision of this Certificate of
Designations requires the calculation of an average of the Closing Price over a span of multiple days, the Corporation will make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event
requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which the average is to be
calculated.  
      -30-  

(xi) Upon conversion of the Series B, the Holders shall receive, in addition to any shares of
Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, any associated rights issued under any shareholder rights agreement of the Corporation that provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series B at any time prior to the
distribution of separate certificates representing such rights will be entitled to receive such rights unless, prior to conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, expired, terminated or been redeemed or exchanged in accordance with
such rights plan, and no adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11(a)(iv) hereof. If, prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of
separation as if the Corporation distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants as described in Section 11(a)(iv) hereof, subject to readjustment in the
event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.    (xii) Subject to applicable stock exchange rules and listing
standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 Business Days if the Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the best interests in the Corporation;
     provided      the Corporation has given to the Conversion Agent and DTC at least 15 days  prior notice of any such increase in the Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect. Subject to
applicable stock exchange rules and listing standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate, in addition to the events requiring an increase in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11 hereof, as it in its
discretion shall determine to be advisable in order to avoid or diminish any tax to shareholders in connection with any stock dividends, subdivisions of shares, distributions of rights to purchase stock or securities or distributions of securities
convertible into or exchangeable for stock hereafter made by the Corporation to its shareholders or other events.    (xiii) Whenever the
Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Corporation will issue a notice to the Conversion Agent and DTC containing the relevant information and make this information available on the Corporation s website. In addition, the
Corporation shall provide upon the request of a Holder of Series B, to the extent not posted on the Corporation website, a brief statement setting forth in reasonable detail how the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth
the adjusted Conversion Rate.    (xiv) For purposes of this Section 11, the number of shares of common Stock at any time outstanding
shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.  
 (xv) If the record date for a dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date and the payment date for a
dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs after a Mandatory Conversion Date, and such dividend or distribution would have resulted in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate if such dividend or distribution does not result in an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate but were paid prior to such Mandatory Conversion Date, then without duplication the Corporation shall deem the Holders to be holders  
      -31-  

of record of Common Stock for purposes of that dividend or distribution. In that case, the Holders will receive the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the applicable Mandatory
Conversion Date together with the dividend or distribution on such shares of Common Stock so converted.      12.  Reorganization
Events.     (a) In the event of:  
 (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person or of another Person with or into the Corporation;  
 (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety;
   (iii) any statutory share exchange of the Corporation with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); or
   (iv) any liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Corporation;  
 in each case in which holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock (any such event
specified in this Section 12(a), a   Reorganization Event  ), each share of Series B outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the kind of cash,
securities and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of one share of common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such cash, securities and other property,
the   Exchange Property  ).    (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect
the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the  Exchange Property  that Holders of the Series B will be entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by
the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). The number of units of Exchange Property for each share of Series B converted following the effective date of such Reorganization
Event shall be determined based on the Conversion Rate then in effect on the applicable Conversion Date, determined as if the references to a  share of Common Stock  in this Certificate of Designations were to  unit of Exchange
Property.     (c) After a Reorganization Event, for purposes of determining whether a Mandatory Conversion Date has occurred, the term
 Closing Price  shall be deemed to refer to the closing sale price, last quoted bid price or mid-point of the last bid and ask prices, as the case may be, of any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange
Property. For purposes of this Section 12, references to Common Stock in the definition of  Trading Day  shall be replaced by references to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property.  
      -32-  

(d) The above provisions of this Section 12 shall similarly apply to successive
Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 11 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.  
 (e) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the
Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12 or the
validity of any Reorganization Event.      13.  Fractional Shares.   
 (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series B.  
 (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a)
or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 9(a), Section 10(c) or Section 10(g), the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of:  
 (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a), a Make Whole Acquisition conversion pursuant to Section 10(c) or
a Conversion Upon Fundamental Change pursuant to Section 10(g), the average of the Closing Prices over the five consecutive Trading Day period preceding the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Conversion Date; or  
 (ii) in the case of an Early Conversion pursuant to Section 9(a), the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the second Trading Day
immediately preceding the Early Conversion Date.    (c) If more than one share of the Series B is surrendered for conversion at one time by
or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so surrendered.  
   14.  Reservation of common Stock.   
 (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the
treasury by the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to
time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the number of shares of common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series B
shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.  
      -33-  

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion
of shares of Series B, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges,
security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (c) All
shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges,
security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall
be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval
of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.    (e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any
time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and
keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B;      provided      , however     ,
that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series B into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation
covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.  
 15.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem
and treat the record holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
 16.      Notices     . All notices or communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in
writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.  
 17.      Preemptive or Subscription Rights     . Except as expressly provided in any agreement between a Holder and
the Corporation, no share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such
warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      -34-  

18.      Repurchase     . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the
Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series B from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;      provided,
however     , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 19.      Other Rights     . The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative,
participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law.  
 [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -35-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this
certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 10 th  day of October, 2008.  

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
   /s/ Daniel B. Park   

Name:  Daniel B. Park   

Title:  Assistant Treasurer   

AMENDED   
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES B
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:  
 A. That, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on
September 28, 2008, and by a Certificate of Designations filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 10, 2008, the Corporation authorized the issuance of 6,045,750 shares of 10% Series B Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series B  ), of the Corporation and established the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other
special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series B;    B. That no shares of Series B have been issued;  
 C. That, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on
October 12, 2008, the Corporation adopted the following resolution amending the Certificate of Designations of the Series B and increasing the number of shares designated as Series B:  
  RESOLVED, that, pursuant to Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Designations of Rights and
Preferences of the 10% Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation be and hereby is amended to read in its entirety as follows, and the number of shares designated as Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock of the Corporation be increased from 6,045,750 to 7,839,209:     1.  Designation . The
distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B,
except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  

2.  Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 7,839,209.
Shares of Series B that are purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into Common Stock or another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided
that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series B by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.    Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of shares of Series B shall be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 10%;  provided , that, if Stockholder
Approval has not been received by February 17, 2009, if such Stockholder Approval is then required for the conversion of all of the Series B without a Violation, the per annum rate shall be increased to 13% per annum on and including
February 17, 2009 and shall remain in effect until the date upon which Stockholder Approval is received or no longer required. Declared dividends on the Series B shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of
the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than the initial Dividend Period), and shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, on each
January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment Date  ). If any date on which dividends would otherwise be payable shall not be a
Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the
Dividend Payment Date, and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is
not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.  
 Dividends on the Series B shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee
thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series B payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend
Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series B are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly  
      -2-  

authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day
that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend
Period   means the period from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of
the Series B and shall end on but exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series B shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series B will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below) and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series B, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series B (issued with the requisite consent of the
Holders of the Series B, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise
acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B has been declared and paid (or declared and a
sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit
plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or
conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or
exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any
stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such
warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co.
Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all
 
      -3-  

dividends declared on the Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend
Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per
share on the Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend
Period) bear to each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series B, from time to time out of any funds
legally available for such payment, and the Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    4.  Liquidation
Rights .    (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all
liabilities, if any, to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or  pari passu  with the Series B in respect of distributions upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking
junior to the Series B as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such
distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full
liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series B and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the
amounts paid to the Holders of Series B and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series B and the holders of all such other stock.
In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation
available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an
 
      -4-  

amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series B will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference on the Series B and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking
equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and
preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
   5.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The Holders of Series B shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of
Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right to Elect Two Directors Upon
Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series B, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend
Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two
additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors    provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York
Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include
more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record
of at least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall
be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written
notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series B or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 16 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights
will continue until  
      -5-  

dividends on the shares of the Series B and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have
been set aside for such payment) for at least four regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least
four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series B and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the
Series B and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall
terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account
of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock
Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent
such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent
of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above
(voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the
Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting
called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with
the Series B as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the
Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ), and the Corporation s 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock (the   Series C  ), in each case,
if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion
of the shares of Series B and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.  
      -6-  

(c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to
any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled
to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series B . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B remain
outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as permitted
by clause (x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders
thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole;     provided, however , that for all purposes of
this Section 5(c), neither the issuance of any Series B in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (as defined below) as in effect on the date hereof nor the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will be deemed to adversely affect  
      -7-  

the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and neither will require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series B. In addition, any conversion of
the Series B pursuant hereto shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series B shall have any voting rights with respect to any binding
share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred
Stock (including the Series B for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above,
there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series B, so long as such action does not adversely affect the
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series B:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    (e)  Procedures for Voting and
Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the
obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt
from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B is listed or traded
at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled
to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
 (f)  Authorization of Certain Parity Stock . Until October 13, 2013, if the Initial Holder or an Affiliate thereof beneficially owns
shares of Series B representing at least 15% of the shares of Series B initially issued to the Initial Holder, in addition to any other vote or  
      -8-  

consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the consent of the Initial Holder shall be necessary for effecting or validating any amendment or alteration of the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking pari passu with the Series B with
respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation if such class or series of stock:  
 (i) is issued for consideration with a fair market value that is less than the liquidation preference thereof;  
 (ii) has a dividend rate that is (x) higher than the dividend rate applicable to the Series B and (y) substantially higher than the
dividend rate that would then be carried by a substantially equivalent publicly traded security then issued by a similar issuer with a long-term unsecured debt credit rating substantially equivalent to that of the Corporation; or  
 (iii) is convertible or exchangeable into Common Stock at a per share conversion or exchange price that is less than the closing price of the
Common Stock on the day prior to the date of issuance thereof or the date that a binding agreement for the purchase and sale of such shares is entered into, if different from the date of issuance;  
  provided, however , that this paragraph (f) shall not apply (and no vote or consent of the Initial Holder or any other Holder of any Series B shall
be required) in connection with any of the following: (A) any authorization, creation or issuance of any preferred stock in connection with any merger, business combination or share exchange involving an unaffiliated third party for the purpose
of replacing or substituting the outstanding series or class of preferred stock of such third party; (B) any broadly distributed underwritten offering of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; or (C) any
broadly distributed placement of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933.    
 6.  Redemption . The shares of Series B shall not be redeemable.  
 7.  Rank . Any stock of any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:  
 (a) prior to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of
such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the
Series B;    (b) on a parity with shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both,
whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Series B, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms
 
      -9-  

thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation
prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series B (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to refer to any stock on a parity with the shares
of Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and    (c) junior
to shares of the Series B, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or classes or series shall be common stock or if the Holders of the Series B shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of stock of such class or classes or series.  
 The Series B shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Series A, the Series C and any
Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series B:  
   Capital Stock   of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or
other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.  
   Cash   means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public
and private debts.      Close of Business   means 5:00 p.m., New York City time.  
   Closing Price   of the Common Stock or any securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, means, as of any date of
determination:    (a) the closing price on that date or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price, of
shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the New York Stock Exchange on that date; or    (b) if the Common
Stock or such other securities are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such
other securities are so traded or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale price of shares of the Common Stock or such other securities on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such
other securities are so traded on that date; or    (c) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not traded on a U.S.
national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price on that date for the Common Stock or such other securities in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization; or  
      -10-  

(d) if the Common Stock or such other securities are not so quoted by Pink Sheets
LLC or a similar organization, the market price of the Common Stock or such other securities on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking not affiliated with the Corporation retained by the Corporation for
this purpose.    For the purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the closing price and the last reported sale price of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service; provided that in the
event that there is a discrepancy between the closing price and the last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing price and the last reported sale
price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.        Common Stock   means the common stock, $0.01
par value, of the Corporation.          Conversion Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as conversion agent for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.    
     Conversion Date   means each of a Mandatory Conversion Date and a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Conversion Price   at any time means for each share of Series B the price equal to $1,000 divided by the Conversion
Rate in effect at such time (initially $25.25).          Conversion Rate   means initially 39.604 shares of Common
Stock per share of Series B, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.    
     Depositary   means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.    
     DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.    
     Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.    
     Ex-Dividend Date   means the first date on which the Common Stock trades, regular way, on the relevant exchange, or in
the relevant market from which the Closing Price was obtained, without the right to receive such dividend or distribution.    
      -11-  

Fair Market Value   means the amount which a willing buyer would pay a
willing seller in an arm s-length transaction as determined by the Board of Directors.          Full Mandatory
Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the later of (i) the first date after the second anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning
after such second anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price and (ii) the date Stockholder Approval shall have been received or is no longer required to
permit conversion of all shares of Series B.          Fundamental Change   means the occurrence, prior to the Full
Mandatory Conversion Date, of one of the following:      (i) a  person  or  group  within the
meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock;  
 (ii) consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer
in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case
pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive a distribution of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all
outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the transaction; or  
 (iii) shares of the Common Stock or shares of any other stock into which the Series B is convertible are not listed for trading
on any United States national securities exchange or cease to be traded in contemplation of a delisting (other than as a result of a transaction described in clause (ii) above);  
  provided, however , that a Fundamental Change with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90%
of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or
that will be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with a Fundamental Change; and  provided, further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Fundamental
Change with respect to clauses (i) or (ii) above will not be deemed to have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation
in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.    
      -12-  

Holder   means the Person in whose name the shares of Series B are
registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, dividend disbursing agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series B for the purpose of disbursing dividends and settling conversions and for
all other purposes.          Initial Holder   means Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.    
     Issue Date   means October 13, 2008.    
     Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series B as to the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.    
     Make-Whole Acquisition   means the occurrence, prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, of one of the
following:      (i) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange
Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common
equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock; or    (ii)
consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and
its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into, or receive distributions of the proceeds in, cash, securities or other
property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, voting shares of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving Person or the ultimate parent entity thereof immediately after the
transaction;     provided, however , that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by
holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or that will be so traded when issued
or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition; and  provided, further , that with respect to any shares of Series B that are beneficially owned by the Initial Holder or its affiliates, a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to
have occurred if the Initial Holder or any of its affiliates is part of the person or group referred to in clause (i) above or is a counterparty to the Corporation in any of the transactions referred to in clause (ii) above.    
      -13-  

Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price   means the consideration paid per
share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole Acquisition. If such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share of Common Stock. If such consideration consists of any property
other than cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.    
     Mandatory Conversion Date   means a Partial Mandatory Conversion Date or a Full Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Non-Mandatory Conversion Date   means an Early Conversion Date, a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Date or a
Fundamental Change Conversion Date.          Open of Business   means 9:00 a.m., New York City time.    
     Ownership Limit   means a number of shares of Common Stock equal to 0.149 times the sum, without duplication, of
(1) the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock on such date of measurement and (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock to be converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date.    
     Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series B in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.          Partial Mandatory
Conversion Date   means the 3rd Trading Day immediately following the later of (i) the first date after the first anniversary of the Issue Date as of which, for 20 Trading Days within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning
after such first anniversary and preceding such date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock has exceeded 150% of the then applicable Conversion Price and (ii) the date Stockholder Approval shall have been received or is no longer required to
permit conversion of all shares of Series B.          Person   means a legal person, including any individual,
corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.    
     Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series B.    
     Reference Price   means the price per share of Common Stock in connection with a Fundamental Change. If the holders of
shares of Common Stock receive only cash in connection with the Fundamental Change, the Reference Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise the Reference Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on
each of the 10 Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Fundamental Change.    
      -14-  

Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as registrar for the Series B, and its successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.    
     Securities Purchase Agreement   means the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2007, between
the Corporation and the Investor listed on the signature page thereto.          Stockholder Approval   means
approval of stockholders of the Corporation necessary to approve the conversion of all of the Series B into Common Stock for purposes of Section 312.03 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual or the time at which such provisions shall for any reason
become inapplicable or not required so as to permit the conversion of all shares of Series B.          Subsidiary  
means with respect to any Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent
(50%) of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.    
     Trading Day   means a day on which the Common Stock (i) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional
securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the Close of Business and (ii) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for
the trading of the Common Stock.          Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its
capacity as transfer agent for the Series B, and its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.    
     Violation   means a violation of the stockholder approval requirements of Section 312.03 of the NYSE Listed
Company Manual to the extent then applicable.    
      -15-  

9.  Early Conversion at the Option of the Holder.  Other than during a Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion Period, any Holder shall have the right to convert such Holder s shares of Series B, in whole or in part (but in no event less than one share of Series B), at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date
(  Early Conversion  ), into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate, subject to satisfaction of the conversion procedures set forth in Section 10(b);  provided  that, prior to the receipt of
Stockholder Approval, Early Conversion shall be limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock the conversion into which would not result in a Violation. The date of such Early Conversion is referred to herein as the   Early
Conversion Date .     10.  Conversion.    
 (a)  Mandatory Conversion on Mandatory Conversion Date .  
 (i) On the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, one half of the outstanding shares of Series B held by each Holder thereof will mandatorily
convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate;  provided  that to the extent such conversion would result in the number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates exceeding
the Ownership Limit (such shares of Common Stock that would exceed the Ownership Limit, the   Excess Shares  ) the number of shares of Series B of the Initial Holder so converted on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date shall be
limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates equal the Ownership Limit; and  provided further , that to the
extent that there are Excess Shares and shares of Common Stock are issued upon settlement of the equity units sold pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement after the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date and prior to the Full Mandatory Conversion
Date, outstanding shares of Series B held by the Initial Holder will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock (but not greater than the number of Excess Shares) at the then applicable Conversion Rate provided that the number of shares of
Series B of the Initial Holder so converted shall be limited to the number of shares of Series B such that after giving effect to such conversion, the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the Initial Holder and its affiliates do not exceed
the Ownership Limit. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of Series B will be treated as the record Holder(s) of such shares of
Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Partial Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any
dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by virtue of holding the Series B.    (ii) On the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, all
of the outstanding shares of Series B will mandatorily convert into shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Rate. No action shall be required by the Holder thereof. The person or persons
 
      -16-  

entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of Series B will be treated as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on
the Full Mandatory Conversion Date. Except as provided under Section 11(a)(xv), prior to the Close of Business on the Full Mandatory Conversion Date, the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B will not be deemed to be
outstanding for any purpose and Holders shall have no rights with respect to such shares of Common Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock, by
virtue of holding the Series B.    (iii) In addition to the number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Section 10(a),
if applicable, the Holders on a Mandatory Conversion Date shall have the right to receive an amount equal to any declared and unpaid dividends on the Series B for the most recent Dividend Period ending on a Mandatory Conversion Date to the extent
such Holders were the Holders of record as of the Dividend Record Date for such dividend.    (b)  Conversion Procedures for a
Non-Mandatory Conversion Date . To effect conversion on a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date, a Holder who:    (i) holds a beneficial interest
in a global certificate representing the Series B must deliver to DTC the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to DTC s conversion program and, if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment
Date to which such Holder is not entitled by virtue of Section 10(e) and, if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any; or  
 (ii) holds shares of Series B in certificated form must:  
 (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the Series B certificate or a facsimile of the conversion
notice;    (B) deliver the completed conversion notice and the certificated shares of Series B to be converted to the
Conversion Agent;    (C) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;  
 (D) if required, pay funds equal to the dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled
by virtue of Section 10(e); and    (E) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes or duties, if any.  
 The conversion will be effective on the date on which a Holder has satisfied all of the foregoing requirements, to the extent applicable,
which shall be the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. A Holder will not be required to pay any transfer or similar taxes or duties relating to the issuance or delivery of Common Stock if such Holder exercises its conversion rights, but such
Holder will be required to pay any transfer or similar tax or duty that  
      -17-  

may be payable relating to any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of Common Stock in a name other than the name of such Holder. A certificate representing Common Stock will be issued
and delivered only after all applicable taxes and duties, if any, payable by the Holder have been paid in full.    The person or persons
entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. No allowance or
adjustment, except as set forth in Section 11(a), shall be made in respect of dividends payable to Holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date. Prior to such applicable Non-Mandatory
Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series B shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond
to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Series B.  
 In the event that a conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series B representing fewer than all the shares of Series B held by a
Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation shall execute and the Registrar shall countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B as to which conversion was not
effected.    The Corporation shall deliver the shares of Common Stock to which the Holder converting pursuant to Section 9 is entitled
on or prior to the third Trading Day immediately following the applicable Non-Mandatory Conversion Date.    (c)  Conversion Upon
Make-Whole Acquisition .    (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to
convert its shares of Series B (a   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion  ) at the then applicable Conversion Rate during the period (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period  ) beginning on the effective date of the
Make-Whole Acquisition (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock in the form of
Make-Whole Shares as set forth in this Section 10(c);  provided  that, prior to the receipt of Stockholder Approval, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any conversion in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition shall be
limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock so that such conversion would not result in a Violation. The date of such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is referred to herein as the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion
Date .   
      -18-  

(ii) The number of   Make-Whole Shares   shall be determined for
the Series B by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:      
   (A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in
the table above, in which case:    (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock
Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the
higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;  
 (2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no
Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B; and    (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is
less than $21.375 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant hereto), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series B.  
 (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above (and the corresponding prices set forth in clauses
(2) and (3) above) are subject to adjustment pursuant hereto and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and
(3) above) shall equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices (and corresponding prices set forth in clauses (2) and (3) above), respectively, applicable immediately prior to such  
      -19-  

adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price adjustments and the
denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Make-Whole Shares in the table above shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11.  
 (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Make-Whole
Acquisition (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date on which the Make-Whole Acquisition is anticipated to be effected;  
 (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which the Make-Whole Acquisition
conversion option must be exercised;    (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of
Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and    (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in
connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition.    (iv) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(c)(iii), comply with the procedures set forth in Section 10(b).
   (v) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this
Section 10(c), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it shall remain outstanding but shall not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares.  
 (vi) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in
the Make-Whole Acquisition.    (vii) In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares
of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition  
      -20-  

Conversion, the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of
the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.  
 (viii) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition, such Holder shall not
be entitled to an adjusted conversion price pursuant to Section 10(g) to the extent such Make-Whole Acquisition also constitutes a Fundamental Change.  
 (d)  Registration of Common Stock . In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common
Stock to be issued upon conversion of such Series B should be registered or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and
make such payment, in the name of the Holder as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares of Common Stock to the address of such Holder shown on the records of the Corporation.  
 (e)  Dividends . If a Non-Mandatory Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is prior to the Close of Business on the
Dividend Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period in which such Holder is electing to convert, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared dividends for that Dividend Period. If a Non-Mandatory Conversion
Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series B is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment
Date if such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Non-Mandatory Conversion Date is after the Close of Business on the Dividend Record
Date and prior to the Open of Business on the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder was the Holder of record at the Close of Business on the Dividend Record Date, the Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares
of Series B an amount in cash equal to the dividend payable on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series B being converted.  
 (f)  Outstanding Shares of Series B . Shares of Series B shall cease to be outstanding on the applicable Conversion Date, subject to the
right of Holders of such shares to receive shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of Series B.      (g)
 Conversion Upon Fundamental Change.     (i) If the Reference Price in connection with a Fundamental Change is less than
the then applicable Conversion Price, a Holder may convert each share of Series B during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change
at an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $12.6250,  
      -21-  

subject to adjustment as described herein (the   Base Price  ),  provided  that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, prior to the receipt of Stockholder Approval,
any conversion in connection with a Fundamental Change shall be limited to conversion into such number of shares of Common Stock so that such conversion would not result in a Violation. The date of such conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
referred to herein as the   Fundamental Change Conversion Date .     (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as
of any date the Conversion Rate of the Series B is adjusted pursuant hereto. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate
immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Base Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders shall receive a maximum of 79.2079 shares of
Common Stock per share of Series B (subject to adjustment in a manner inverse to the adjustments to the Base Price).    (iii)
On or before the 20 th  day prior to the date on which the Corporation anticipates consummating the Fundamental Change (or, if later, within two Business Days after the Corporation becomes aware of
a Fundamental Change described in clause (i) of the definition of such term), a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the
Corporation. Such notice shall contain:    (A) the date on which the Fundamental Change is anticipated to be effected; and
   (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which the Fundamental Change
conversion option must be exercised.    (iv) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change, another written notice shall be
sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:  
 (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;  
 (B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;  
 (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration payable per share of Common Stock or Series B, respectively; and
   (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Fundamental Change.
 
      -22-  

(v) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must,
no later than the Close of Business on the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under Section 10(g)(iv), comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 10(b).    (vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change pursuant
to this Section 10(g), the shares of Series B or successor securities held by it will remain outstanding but shall not thereafter be entitled to convert in accordance with Section 10(g).  
 (vii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 10(b), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted
conversion price following the Fundamental Change.    (viii) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is
effected with respect to shares of Series B or successor securities representing fewer than all the shares of Series B or successor securities held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion
Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series B or such successor securities held by the Holder as to which a
conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected.    (ix) If a Holder elects to convert its shares of Series B in
connection with a Fundamental Change, such Holder shall not be entitled to Make-Whole Shares pursuant to Section 10(c) to the extent such Fundamental Change also constitutes a Make-Whole Acquisition.  
 (h) A Holder cannot effect both a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion and a Fundamental Change Conversion with respect to a share of Series B.
   (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Certificate of Designations, a Holder of shares of Series B shall not, for a period
of 35 calendar days after any Conversion Date, sell any shares of Common Stock or other equity securities it receives upon conversion of the shares it converted on such Conversion Date.  
   11.  Anti-Dilution Adjustments.   
      -23-  

(a) The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Corporation as follows:  
 (i) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, issues shares of Common Stock as a dividend
or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Corporation effects a share split or share combination in respect of the Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:  
   
   where       

CR 0   
    
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or combination, as
applicable;  

CR 1   
    
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as
applicable;  

OS 0   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share
combination, as applicable; and  

OS 1   
    
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such dividend or distribution, or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share split or share combination, as applicable.  
 
  The Corporation will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in
treasury by the Corporation.    (ii) Except as otherwise provided for by Section 11(a)(iv) below, if the Corporation, at any time or
from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days from the
Record Date of such distribution to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Record Date of such distribution, the Conversion
Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
 
      -24-  

where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

OS 0  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

X 
   
 = 
    
 the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants; and  

Y 
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants divided by the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the
Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.  
   To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the
expiration or termination of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the distribution of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of
the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.    In determining the aggregate price payable to exercise such
rights or warrants, there shall be taken into account any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  
      -25-  

(iii) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 11(a)(i) above), evidences
of its indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Capital Stock or other securities, but excluding (1) dividends or distributions as to which an adjustment under Section 11(a)(i),
Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 11(a)(iv) hereof shall apply, (2) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in Cash and (3) Spin-Offs to which the provision set forth below in this Section 11(a)(iii) shall apply (any of such
shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants to acquire the Corporation s Common Stock or other securities, hereinafter in this Section 11(a)(iii) called the   Distributed Property  ), then,
in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and  

FMV 
   
 = 
    
 the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) of the portion of Distributed Property with respect to each outstanding share of Common Stock on the Record Date for such
distribution.  
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the
Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall
distribute to each Holder on the date the Distributed Property is distributed to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Distributed Property such Holder would have received had
such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the record date fixed for determination for stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any
distribution for purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it shall in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the average of the
Closing Prices of the Common Stock for purposes of calculating SP 0  in the formula in this Section 11(a)(iii).  
      -26-  

With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii) where there has been a
payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock consisting of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (a
  Spin-Off  ), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Close of Business on the tenth Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
     
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the
Spin-Off;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect from and after the Close of Business on the 10 th  Trading Day immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off;  

FMV 
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of the Capital Stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and
including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; and  

MP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average of the Closing Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading Day period immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.  
   Such adjustment shall occur on the 10 th  Trading Day
immediately following, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off (it being agreed that notwithstanding Section 10(a), the Holder of the Series B shall not be entitled to convert the Series B pursuant to an Early Conversion prior to such
10 th  Trading Day).    For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii),
Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, any dividend or distribution to which this Section 11(a)(iii) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common
Stock to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock
or rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 11(a)(iii) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by
(2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants to which Section 11(a)(i) or 11(a)(ii) hereof applies (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 11(a)(i) and 11(a)(ii)
hereof with respect to such dividend or distribution  
      -27-  

shall then be made), except (A) the Close of Business on the Record Date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted for  the Close of Business on the Record Date, 
 the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date,   after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution or the Close of Business on the effective date of such share
split or share combination  and  the Close of Business on the Record Date for such distribution  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii) hereof and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such
dividend or distribution shall not be deemed  outstanding immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date or the Close of Business on the effective date  within the meaning of Section 11(a)(i) hereof.  
 (iv) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is outstanding, distributes rights or warrants to all
holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for, purchase or convert into shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a
specified event or events (  Trigger Event  ): (x) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (y) are not exercisable; and (z) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be
deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 11(a)(iii) above, (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 11(a)(iii) above will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event and a distribution
or deemed distribution under the terms of such rights or warrants at which time an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made in the same manner as provided for under Section 11(a)(iii) above. If any such
rights or warrants are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event
shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Record Date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition,
in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate under this Section 11(a)(iv) was made, (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon
such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common
Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that
shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights or warrants had not been issued.  
      -28-  

(v) (1) If the Corporation, at any time or from time to time while any of the Series B is
outstanding, makes a regular, quarterly Cash dividend or distribution to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock during any quarterly fiscal period that exceeds $0.27 (the   Initial Dividend Threshold  ), the Conversion Rate
shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C 
   
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock in excess of the Initial Dividend Threshold.  
     The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion
Rate;  provided  that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to clauses (1) or (2) of this Section 11(a)(v).    
 (2) If the Corporation pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to all or
substantially all holders of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:      
   where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;   
      -29-  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution;  

SP 0  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;  

C 
   
 = 
    
 the amount in Cash per share the Corporation distributes or dividends to holders of Common Stock  
   (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the portion of the Cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common
Stock is equal to or greater than SP 0  as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, the Corporation shall distribute to each Holder on the date the Cash dividend or distribution is paid
to holders of Common Stock, but without requiring such Holder to convert its shares of Series B, the amount of Cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the Record
Date for such dividend or distribution. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been
declared.    (4) For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this Section 11(a)(v), in the event of any reclassification of the Common
Stock, as a result of which the Series B becomes convertible into more than one class of Common Stock, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required pursuant to this Section 11(a)(v), references in this Section to one share of Common
Stock or Closing Price of one share of Common Stock shall be deemed to refer to a unit or to the price of a unit consisting of the number of shares of each class of Common Stock into which the Series B is then convertible equal to the numbers of
shares of such class issued in respect of one share of Common Stock in such reclassification. The above provisions of this paragraph shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications.  
 (vi) If the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment of Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange
offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where such Cash and the value of any such other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day next succeeding the last date (the  expiration date ) on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following
formula:      
 
      -30-  

where      

CR 0  
   
 = 
    
 the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

CR 1  
   
 = 
    
 the new Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Close of Business on the expiration date;  

AC 
   
 = 
    
 the aggregate value of all Cash and any other consideration (as determined in good faith by the Corporation s Board of Directors) paid or payable for shares purchased in such tender or exchange offer;  

OS 0  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires;  

OS 1  
   
 = 
    
 the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the date such tender or exchange offer expires (after giving effect to such tender offer or exchange offer); and  

SP 1  
   
 = 
    
 the average Closing Price of Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day next succeeding the expiration date.  
   If the Corporation or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender
or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that had been effected. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11(a)(vi) with respect to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this
Section 11(a)(vi).    (vii) For purposes of this Section 11(a) the term  Record Date  shall mean, with respect to any
dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any Cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into
any combination of Cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such Cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or
otherwise).  
      -31-  

(viii) If application of the formulas provided in Sections 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii), 11(a)(iii),
11(a)(iv), 11(a)(v) or 11(a)(vi) above would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment (other than a readjustment as described in such sections) to the Conversion Rate shall be made except in the case of a share split or combination
of the Common Stock.    (ix) If one or more events occur requiring an adjustment be made to the Conversion Rate for a particular period,
adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors to reflect the combined impact of such Conversion Rate adjustments, as set out in this Section 11(a), during such period.  
 (x) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing clauses in this Section 11, no adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless the
adjustment would result in a change in the Conversion Rate of at least 1.00%;  provided, however , that any adjustment which by reason of this Section 11(a)(x) is not required to be made shall be carried forward and the Corporation shall
make such adjustment, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1.00%, within one year of the first such adjustment carried forward or in connection with any conversion of Series B. All calculations under this Section 11 shall
be made to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be.  
 No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made (i) for issuances of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan for
reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation s securities or the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan, (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or
rights to purchase shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of, or assumed by, the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series B was first issued, (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock, (v) for repurchases of shares of Common
Stock in open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions, or (vi) for accumulated and unpaid dividends, other than as expressly contemplated by Section 11(a)(i).  
 No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made pursuant to Section 11(a)(i) through (ix) above for a transaction if Holders are
permitted to participate in the transaction without conversion, concurrently with the holders of Common Stock, on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in good faith to be fair and appropriate in light of
the basis and notice to holders of Common Stock participating in the transaction.    Whenever a provision of this Certificate of
Designations requires the calculation of an average of the Closing Price over a span of multiple days, the Corporation will make appropriate adjustments to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event
requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time during the period from which the average is to be
calculated.  
      -32-  

(xi) Upon conversion of the Series B, the Holders shall receive, in addition to any shares of
Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, any associated rights issued under any shareholder rights agreement of the Corporation that provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series B at any time prior to the
distribution of separate certificates representing such rights will be entitled to receive such rights unless, prior to conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, expired, terminated or been redeemed or exchanged in accordance with
such rights plan, and no adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11(a)(iv) hereof. If, prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of
separation as if the Corporation distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets, property or rights or warrants as described in Section 11(a)(iv) hereof, subject to readjustment in the
event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.    (xii) Subject to applicable stock exchange rules and listing
standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 Business Days if the Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the best interests in the Corporation;
 provided  the Corporation has given to the Conversion Agent and DTC at least 15 days  prior notice of any such increase in the Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect. Subject to applicable stock exchange rules
and listing standards, the Corporation shall be entitled to increase the Conversion Rate, in addition to the events requiring an increase in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11 hereof, as it in its discretion shall determine to be
advisable in order to avoid or diminish any tax to shareholders in connection with any stock dividends, subdivisions of shares, distributions of rights to purchase stock or securities or distributions of securities convertible into or exchangeable
for stock hereafter made by the Corporation to its shareholders or other events.    (xiii) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as
herein provided, the Corporation will issue a notice to the Conversion Agent and DTC containing the relevant information and make this information available on the Corporation s website. In addition, the Corporation shall provide upon the
request of a Holder of Series B, to the extent not posted on the Corporation website, a brief statement setting forth in reasonable detail how the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate.  
 (xiv) For purposes of this Section 11, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the
treasury of the Corporation but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.  
 (xv) If the record date for a dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date and the payment date for a
dividend or distribution on Common Stock occurs after a Mandatory Conversion Date, and such dividend or distribution would have resulted in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate if such dividend or distribution does not result in an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate but were paid prior to such Mandatory Conversion Date, then without duplication the Corporation shall deem the Holders to be holders  
      -33-  

of record of Common Stock for purposes of that dividend or distribution. In that case, the Holders will receive the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the applicable Mandatory
Conversion Date together with the dividend or distribution on such shares of Common Stock so converted.      12.  Reorganization
Events.     (a) In the event of:  
 (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person or of another Person with or into the Corporation;  
 (ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety;
   (iii) any statutory share exchange of the Corporation with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); or
   (iv) any liquidation, dissolution or termination of the Corporation;  
 in each case in which holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock (any such event
specified in this Section 12(a), a   Reorganization Event  ), each share of Series B outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the kind of cash,
securities and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of one share of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such cash, securities and other property,
the   Exchange Property  ).    (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect
the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the  Exchange Property  that Holders of the Series B will be entitled to receive shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by
the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). The number of units of Exchange Property for each share of Series B converted following the effective date of such Reorganization
Event shall be determined based on the Conversion Rate then in effect on the applicable Conversion Date, determined as if the references to a  share of Common Stock  in this Certificate of Designations were to  unit of Exchange
Property.     (c) After a Reorganization Event, for purposes of determining whether a Mandatory Conversion Date has occurred, the term
 Closing Price  shall be deemed to refer to the closing sale price, last quoted bid price or mid-point of the last bid and ask prices, as the case may be, of any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange
Property. For purposes of this Section 12, references to Common Stock in the definition of  Trading Day  shall be replaced by references to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property.  
      -34-  

(d) The above provisions of this Section 12 shall similarly apply to successive
Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 11 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.  
 (e) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the
Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 12 or the
validity of any Reorganization Event.    13.  Fractional Shares.    
 (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series B.  
 (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a)
or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 9, Section 10(c) or Section 10(g), the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of:  
 (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to Section 10(a), a Make Whole Acquisition conversion pursuant to Section 10(c) or
a Conversion Upon Fundamental Change pursuant to Section 10(g), the average of the Closing Prices over the five consecutive Trading Day period preceding the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Conversion Date; or  
 (ii) in the case of an Early Conversion pursuant to Section 9, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the second Trading Day
immediately preceding the Early Conversion Date.    (c) If more than one share of the Series B is surrendered for conversion at one time by
or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series B so surrendered.  
   14.  Reservation of Common Stock.   
 (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the
treasury by the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to
time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B then outstanding. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series B
shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.  
      -35-  

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion
of shares of Series B, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges,
security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (c) All
shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series B shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges,
security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).    (d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall
be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series B, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval
of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.    (e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any
time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and
keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B;  provided, however , that if the rules of such exchange or automated
quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series B into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series B in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.    15.  Record
Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither
the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    16.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    17.  Preemptive or Subscription Rights.  Except as expressly provided
in any agreement between a Holder and the Corporation, no share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless
of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      -36-  

18.  Repurchase.  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase
and sell shares of Series B from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;  provided, however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds
for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 19.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law.  
 [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -37-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this certificate is
the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 13th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By:  
   
 /s/ Walid A. Chammah  

Name:  
   
 Walid A. Chammah  

Title: 
   
 Co-President  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS   
  OF THE      10% SERIES C
NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL      PREFERRED STOCK   
  ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  
 MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the
Preferred Stock Financing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted on October 12, 2008, the creation of 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ), of the Corporation was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series C, in addition to
those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation . The
distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.  Each share of Series C shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C, except as
to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 3 below.  
 2.  Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of Series C shall be 1,160,791. Shares of Series C that are purchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series C
by any Subsidiary of the Corporation.    3.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate.  Holders of shares of Series C shall be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a
duly authorized committee thereof out of funds of the Corporation legally available for payment, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 10%. Declared dividends on the Series C
shall be payable from and including the date of initial issuance (in the case of the initial Dividend Period) or the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date (in the case of Dividend Periods other than the initial Dividend Period), and shall be
payable quarterly, in arrears, on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, commencing on January 15, 2009 (each such date a   Dividend Payment Date  ). If any date on which dividends would
otherwise be payable shall not be a Business Day (as defined below), then the date of payment of dividends  

need not be made on such date, but such payment of dividends may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Dividend Payment Date,
and no additional dividends shall be payable nor shall interest accrue on the amount payable from and after such Dividend Payment Date to the next succeeding Business Day.   Business Day   means any day that is not a Saturday or
Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.  
 Dividends on the Series C shall not be cumulative; Holders of Series C shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee
thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series C payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend
Period on that Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series C are declared for any future Dividend Period. Declared and unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  
 Dividends that are payable on the Series C on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series C as they appear on the
stock register of the Corporation on the applicable Dividend Record Date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date
shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.    The term   Dividend Period   means the period
from and including each Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of initial issuance of the
Series C and shall end on but exclude the next Dividend Payment Date). Dividends payable on the Series C shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series C will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock (as defined below) and any class or series
of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series C, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series C (issued with the requisite consent
of the Holders of the Series C, if required) and (iii) at least equally with each other class or series of Preferred Stock (as defined below) that the Corporation may issue with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. So long as any share of Series C remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock, and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding  
      -2-  

shares of Series C has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) repurchases,
redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors or consultants or
(2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan; (ii) an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or
series of Junior Stock; (iii) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; (iv) any declaration of a dividend in
connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to the plan; or (v) any dividend in the form of
stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock. In
addition, the foregoing limitation shall not restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of
business.    When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series C and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series C and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series C and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series C, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series C shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    4.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation.  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation, Holders of Series C shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities, if any,
to creditors of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital  
      -3-  

stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or  pari passu  with the Series C in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and
before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series C as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends
that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series C will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment.  If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all Holders of Series C and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series C as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the Holders of
Series C and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Holders of Series C and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the
  Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such
distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series C and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative
dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series C will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 4 and will have no right or claim
to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference on the Series C
and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to such liquidation distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or
proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation.  For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the Holders of Series C receive cash, securities or
other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
   5.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General.  The Holders of Series C shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the Board of
Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
      -4-  

(b)  Right to Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on
any shares of the Series C, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more Dividend Periods, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders
of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the
  Preferred Stock Directors    provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which
the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors; and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that
event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or of any other
series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting
of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series C
or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the
Series C and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at least four regular dividend periods following
the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared
and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series C and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series C and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing
voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by
two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for
that period has passed.    Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of
the outstanding shares of the Series C together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue,
any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote
of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series C and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights  
      -5-  

described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New
York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred
Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date
fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter.    The term   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
ranking equally with the Series C as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred
Stock includes the Corporation s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the   Series A  ) and the Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (the   Series B  ), in
each case, if outstanding, and any class or series of Preferred Stock, whether or not cumulative, that the Corporation may issue in the future, to the extent their like voting rights are exercisable at such time. Whether a plurality, majority or
other portion of the shares of Series C and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the relative liquidation preferences of the shares voted.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series C are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of
Series C . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or  
      -6-  

reclassification involving the Series C, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series C remain outstanding or are
converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding as securities of the Corporation or such other entity as permitted by clause
(x) or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole;     provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this
Section 5(c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are
cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and shall not require the
affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series C. For purposes of clarification, no Holder of Series C shall have any voting rights with respect to any binding share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation
which complies with the provisions of clause (iii)(x) and (y) hereof.    If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange,
reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 5(c) for which a vote is otherwise required would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series C for this purpose),
then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and otherwise entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred
Stock that are otherwise entitled to vote on the matter are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval
of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status and that is otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series C, so long as such action does not adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series C:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series C that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.  
      -7-  

(e)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of
Series C shall be required pursuant to this Section 5 or otherwise if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series C
shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6.  
 (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series C
(including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such
consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate
of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series C is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion
of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series C are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of
the shares voted or covered by the consent.    6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Series C may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October 15, 2011. On or after
October 15, 2011, subject to obtaining any then required regulatory approval, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $1,100 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below), for the purposes of the redemption price only, with an amount equal to dividends accumulated but unpaid for
the then current Dividend Period at the rate set forth in Section 3 to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared for that Dividend Period). The redemption price for any shares of
Series C shall be payable on the redemption date to the Holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any accrued and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period
payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the Holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the Holder of record
of the redeemed shares of Series C on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series C will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions.
Holders of Series C will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series C.  
      -8-  

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C shall be
given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the Holders of record of the shares of Series C to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more
than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail,
or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any Holder of shares of Series C designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if depositary shares representing interests in the Series C are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the Holders of Series C at such time and in any manner
permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a Holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series C to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such Holder are to be redeemed, the number of
such shares to be redeemed from such Holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, the shares to be
redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series C shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares of Series C represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge
to the holder thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the Holders of any shares of Series C so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares of Series C so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate,
except only the right of the Holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the
Corporation, after which time the Holders of the shares of Series C so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
 (f)  Regulatory . Redemption of the Series C by the Corporation is subject to its receipt of any required prior approvals from the
Federal Reserve. The Corporation hereby confirms that it is the Corporation s intention that, at the time of any redemption of the Series C, the Corporation will repay the liquidation preference of any shares of Series C redeemed in
 
      -9-  

accordance with this Section 6 only out of the net proceeds received by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries from the issuance or sale of securities which will qualify as non-restricted core
capital (as such term is defined in 12 C.F.R. 225 (Appendix A)) at the time of such issuance or sale.    7.  Rank.  Any stock of
any class or classes or series of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:    (a) prior to shares of the Series C, either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the Holders of shares of the Series C;    (b) on a parity
with shares of the Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of
the Series C, if the holders of stock of such class or classes or series shall be entitled by the terms thereof to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributed upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to
their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority of one over the other as between the holders of such stock and the Holders of shares of Series C (the term   Parity Preferred Stock   being used to
refer to any stock on a parity with the shares of Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, as the content may require); and  
 (c) junior to shares of the Series C, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or both, if such class or
classes or series shall be common stock or if the Holders of the Series C shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the
holders of stock of such class or classes or series.    The Series C shall rank, as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, on a parity with the Series A, the Series B and any Parity Preferred Stock issued hereafter.    8.  Additional
Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Series C:      Common Stock   means the common stock, $0.01 par value, of the
Corporation.      Holder   means the Person in whose name the shares of Series C are registered, which may be treated by the
Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar and dividend disbursing agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series C for the purpose of disbursing dividends and for all other purposes.  
      -10-  

Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation
that ranks junior to Series C as to the payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series C in the
payment of dividends and rights in dissolution, liquidation and winding up of the Corporation.      Person   means a legal
person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.  
   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series C.  
   Registrar   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as registrar for the Series C, and its
successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.      Subsidiary   means with respect to any
Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent (50%) of the directors or
similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.  
   Transfer Agent   shall mean BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, acting in its capacity as transfer agent for the Series C, and
its respective successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.    9.  Record Holders.  To the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series C may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series C as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor
such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    10.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of
Series C shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation
or Bylaws or by applicable law.    11.  Preemptive or Subscription Rights . Except as expressly provided in any agreement between a
Holder and the Corporation, no share of Series C shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or
such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.    12.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed
herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series C from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and  
      -11-  

upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
 13.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series C shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or
other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or as provided by applicable law. Holders of Series C shall have no right to
exchange or convert such shares into any other security.    [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
      -12-  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm that this certificate is
the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set his hand this 13th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By:  
   
   /s/ Walid A. Chammah   

Name: Walid A. Chammah   

Title: Co-President   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS   
  OF      FIXED RATE
CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D      OF   
  MORGAN STANLEY     Morgan
Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby
certify:    The board of directors of the Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ) or an applicable committee of the Board of
Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution on October 26, 2008 creating a series of 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
designated as   Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D  .     RESOLVED , that pursuant to the
provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares
of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:    
 Part 1.  Designation and Number of Shares . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the
Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D  (the   Designated Preferred Stock  ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall
be 10,000,000.    Part 2.  Standard Provisions . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.  
 Part. 3.  Definitions . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A
hereto) as defined below:    (a)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year.
   (c)   Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which
expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
      1  

(d)   Liquidation Amount   means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
   (e)   Minimum Amount   means $2,500,000,000.  
 (f)   Parity Stock   means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of
which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to
whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation s (i) Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock; (ii) Series B Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock; and (iii) Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.    (g)
  Signing Date   means October 26, 2008.    Part. 4.  Certain Voting Matters . Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record
date, on the date for such vote or consent. For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock under Section 7 of the Standard Provisions forming part of this Certificate of Designations, each holder will
be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which such holder s shares are entitled.  
       [ Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank ]        
      2  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by
Colm Kelleher, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, this 28th day of October, 2008.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By:  
   
 /s/ Colm Kelleher   

Name:  
   
 Colm Kelleher   

Title:  
   
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

3  

ANNEX A   
   STANDARD PROVISIONS    
 Section 1.  General Matters . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of
Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank
equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.  
 Section 2.  Standard Definitions . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:  
 (a)   Applicable Dividend Rate   means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day
of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the
Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.    (b)   Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means the  appropriate Federal
banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.  
 (c)   Business Combination   means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the
approval of the Corporation s stockholders.    (d)   Business Day   means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on
which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.  
 (e)   Bylaws   means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.  
 (f)   Certificate of Designations   means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated
Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.    (g)   Charter  
means the Corporation s certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.    (h)
  Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).    (i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning
set forth in Section 3(a).    (j)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
      A-1  

(k)   Original Issue Date   means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred
Stock are first issued.    (l)   Preferred Director   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (m)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred
Stock.    (n)   Qualified Equity Offering   means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at
the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation s Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to
financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).    (o)   Share Dilution Amount   has
the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).    (p)   Standard Provisions   mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the
Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.    (q)   Successor Preferred Stock   has the meaning
set forth in Section 5(a).    (r)   Voting Parity Stock   means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of
Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.    Section 3.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and
when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per
annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred
Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (     i.e.     , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless
and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such
Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to
the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but  
      A-2  

excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a   Dividend Period  , provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but
excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.    Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period
shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.    Dividends that
are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th
calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend
Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.  
 Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other
than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be
declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common
Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods,
including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid
in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to
(i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share
Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,      provided      that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the
Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the
ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer
subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders   
      A-3  

rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders  rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in
Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other
Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the
Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.   Share Dilution Amount   means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation s consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue
Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.  
   When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on
the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend
Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having
dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends
declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity
Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment
Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued
but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written
notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.      Subject to the foregoing, and not
otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock
and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
 Section 4.  Liquidation Rights .  
      A-4  

(a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
(whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of
Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any
accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the   Liquidation Preference  ).
   (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof
are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated
Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the
corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)
 Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders
of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.    Section 5.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend
Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the
approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as
provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in
Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.  
      A-5  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the
third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid
dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;      provided   
  that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as defined in the relevant certificate of designations
for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the   Successor Preferred Stock  ) in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program
Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock)
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
   The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares
against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid
to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3
above.    (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other
similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.  
 (c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of  
      A-6  

redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state:
(1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the
redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either      pro rata      or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions
hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all
the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.  
 (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the
notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the      pro rata      benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing
business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any
certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no
longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or
trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall
look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    (f)  Status of Redeemed Shares . Shares of
Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (     provided      that any such cancelled shares of
Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).  
 Section 6.  Conversion . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into
any other securities.    Section 7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from
time to time required by law.  
      A-7  

(b)  Preferred Stock Directors . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the
shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the
holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the
          Preferred Directors           and each a           Preferred Director          ) to fill such newly created directorships at the
Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past
Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full
at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;
     provided      that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any
securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall
terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may
be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting
rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold
office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.    (c)  Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters . So long
as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated
Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of
the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
      A-8  

(ii)  Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or
repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal
by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or  
 (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or
reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in
the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and
(y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less
favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any
increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized
or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with
and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be
deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.  
 (d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant
to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called
for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.  
 (e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated
Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a
meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to  
      A-9  

time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on
which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.    Section 8.  Record Holders . To the fullest extent permitted
by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the
Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    Section 9.  Notices . All notices or
communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of
Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be
given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.    Section 10.  No Preemptive
Rights . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities,
or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.    Section 11.  Replacement Certificates . The
Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder s expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense
upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.  
 Section 12.  Other Rights . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.  
      A-10  

CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF   
  THE FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D,   
  OF      MORGAN STANLEY
    Pursuant to Section 151(g)  
 of the General Corporation Law    of
the State of Delaware    Morgan Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Company ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:  
 1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company, as theretofore amended, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 10,000,000 (ten million) shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
Series D, par value $0.01 per share (the  Preferred Stock ), and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on
October 28, 2008, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  
 2. That the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted resolutions approving the repurchase of said Preferred Stock, including resolutions
authorizing each officer of the Company to execute and deliver such further documentation, and to take all such actions as any officer shall deem necessary or desirable, in furtherance of the repurchase of such Preferred Stock, which includes the
execution and filing of this Certificate, and said Preferred Stock has been repurchased by the Company.    3. That no shares of said
Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to said Certificate of Designation.    4. That, accordingly,
all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to the Preferred Stock be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company.  
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 23 rd  day of June, 2009.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  

Name: Martin M. Cohen  

Office: Assistant Secretary and Counsel  

CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF  
 THE 10% SERIES B NON-CUMULATIVE NON-VOTING PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE  
 PREFERRED STOCK ($1,000 LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE PER SHARE)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
 Pursuant to Section 151(g)  
 of the General Corporation Law    of
the State of Delaware    Morgan Stanley, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
  Company  ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:  
 1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company, as theretofore amended, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 7,839,209 (seven million eight hundred thirty-nine thousand two hundred nine) shares of
Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the   Preferred Stock  ), and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on October 10, 2008, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock, and, on October 13, 2008, amended
such Certificate of Designation with respect to such Preferred Stock, in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  
 2. That the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted resolutions approving the conversion of said Preferred Stock into common stock of
the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the   Common Stock  ), including resolutions authorizing each officer of the Company to execute and deliver such further documentation, and to take all such actions as any officer shall deem
necessary or desirable, in furtherance of the conversion of such Preferred Stock, which includes the execution and filing of this Certificate, and said Preferred Stock has been converted into Common Stock.  
 3. That no shares of said Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to said Certificate of Designation.
   4. That, accordingly, all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to the Preferred Stock be, and hereby are,
eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company.         [Remainder of Page Intentionally
Blank]       

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed by its duly authorized
officer this 20th day of July, 2011.       

MORGAN STANLEY  

By: 
   
 /s/ Martin M. Cohen  
 
   Name: Martin M. Cohen  
 
   Title: Corporate Secretary  
 
   [Signature Page to Series B Certificate of Elimination]   

STATE OF DELAWARE   
  CERTIFICATE OF MERGER OF   
  DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS     Pursuant to Title
8, Section 251(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the undersigned corporation executed the following Certificate of Merger:     FIRST :
The name of the surviving corporation is  Morgan
Stanley                                        
         , and the name of the corporation being merged into this surviving corporation is  MSDW Credit Products
Inc.                                         
          .     SECOND : The Agreement of Merger has been approved, adopted, certified, executed and
acknowledged by each of the constituent corporations.     THIRD : The name of the surviving corporation is  Morgan
Stanley                                        
  a Delaware Corporation.     FOURTH : The Certificate of Incorporation of the surviving corporation shall be its Certificate of Incorporation.  
  FIFTH : The merger is to become effective on  December 29,
2011                         .  
  SIXTH : The Agreement of Merger is on file at  c/o Morgan Stanley, 1585 Broadway, New York, New
York                     , the place of business of the surviving corporation.  
  SEVENTH:  A copy of the Agreement of Merger will be furnished by the surviving corporation on request, without cost, to any stockholder of the
constituent corporations.     IN WITNESS WHEREOF , said surviving Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by an authorized officer, the
 29 th   day of  December , A.D.,  2011 .       

By: 
   
             /s/ Aaron Guth  

Authorized Officer   

Name: 
   
       Aaron Guth  

Print or Type   

Title: 
   
       Assistant Secretary  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on September 24, 2013, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), of the Corporation
was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series E, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of
the Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock
is  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E.  Each share of Series E shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series E, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue,
to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series E shall be 34,500. Shares of Series E that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series E by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series E:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series E is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series E, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series E
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means September 30, 2013.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series E in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ) and the Corporation s previously issued 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ).  
      2  

(v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred
stock of the Corporation, including the Series E.    (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section
6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation
ranking equally with the Series E as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A and the Series C. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series E and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by
reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series E will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
7.125% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, October 15, 2023 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 4.32% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including October 15, 2023 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series E after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series E on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series E as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
 A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next
Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series E issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series E and will end on
and exclude the January 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series E issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other
date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series E for any Dividend Period
during the Fixed Rate  
      3  

Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series E for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series E issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the October 15, 2023 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as
a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation
Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be
final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any
successor service.    Holders of Series E shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or
other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series E as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
      4  

Dividends on shares of the Series E will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the
Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series E payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have
no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series E are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series E will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series E, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series E (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series E, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series E, with
respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series E remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series E has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
      5  

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof
set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series E and any
shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series E and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a
dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series
E and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to
each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series E, from time to time out of any funds legally
available for such payment, and the Series E shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)
 Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends.  Dividends on the Series E will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with
applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the
Corporation.    5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series E shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series E in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series E as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series E will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series E and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series E as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series E and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series E and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the  
      6  

Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series E and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not
declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series E will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the
Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series E and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series E receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series E (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after October 15, 2023 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series E shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after September 24, 2013, (ii) any proposed change in
those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after September 24, 2013, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying
those laws or regulations that is announced after September 24, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series E then
outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy  
      7  

guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series E is outstanding.   Appropriate federal
banking agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series E will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series E will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series E.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series E shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series E designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series E. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series E are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series E at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series E
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series E at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series E shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series E so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
      8  

7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series E shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series E, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series E or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series E and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series E and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series E and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series E and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the
filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have
a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock  
      9  

Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such
request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of
Series E are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series
E . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series E, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the
shares of Series E remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or
resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
E, Series A or Series C, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not
require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series E.    If any amendment, alteration,
repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series E for this purpose), then only such
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally
affected by the proposed  
      10  

amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of
each series that will have a diminished status.    (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders
of the Series E, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of
the Series E:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of
Designation that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions
arising with respect to the Series E that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series E shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or
consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series E shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and
procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series E (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written
consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series E is listed or traded at the time.
Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series E are entitled to vote shall
be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.
 Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series E may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series E as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes,
and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series E shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series E shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or
granted.  
      11  

11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series E shall not have any voting powers, preferences or
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 27 th  day of September, 2013.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By    
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES F  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on December 5, 2013, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series F, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F.  Each share of Series F shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series F shall be 39,100. Shares of Series F that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series F by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series F:  
 (a)       Board of Directors       means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series F is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series F, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series F
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means December 10, 2013.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series F in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share ( Series A ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%  
      2  

Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ) and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ).    (v)
  Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series F.  
 (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).  
 (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series F as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable.
Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C and the Series E. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by
reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series F will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.875% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, January 15, 2024 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.94% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including January 15, 2024 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series F after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series F on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series F as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
 A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next
Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series F issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series F and will end on
and exclude the January 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series F issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other
date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall  
      3  

determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series F for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series F for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series F issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the
January 15, 2024 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend
Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to
the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation
Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be
final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any
successor service.  
      4  

Holders of Series F shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in
cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series F as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series F will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series F payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series F are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series F will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series F, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series F (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series F, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series
F, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series F remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series F has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
      5  

When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof
set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series F and any
shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series F and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a
dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series
F and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to
each other.    Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the
Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series F, from time to time out of any funds legally
available for such payment, and the Series F shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)
 Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends . Dividends on the Series F will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with
applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the
Corporation.    5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series F shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series F in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series F as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series F will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series F and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series F as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series F and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series F and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the  Liquidation Preference  of any holder of stock of the  
      6  

Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an
amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series F and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not
declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series F will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the
Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series F and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series F receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series F (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after January 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series F shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after December 5, 2013, (ii) any proposed change in those
laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after December 5, 2013, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those
laws or regulations that is announced after December 5, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series F then outstanding
as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or
 
      7  

regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series F is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking
agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series F will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series F will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series F.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series F. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series F are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series F at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series F
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series F at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series F shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series F so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
      8  

7.  Voting Rights.   
 (a)  General . The holders of Series F shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series F, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series F or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series F and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series F and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series F and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series F and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the
filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have
a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock  
      9  

Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such
request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors
shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of
Series F are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series
F . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series F, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the
shares of Series F remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or
resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken
as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
F, Series A, Series C or Series E, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends (whether
such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will
not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series F.    If any amendment,
alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series F for this purpose), then
only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred  
      10  

Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described
above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series F, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series F:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series F that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series F shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series F shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series F (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series F is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series F are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series F may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series F as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series F
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws
or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series F shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any
securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
      11  

11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series F shall not have any voting powers, preferences or
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 9 th  day of December, 2013.       

MORGAN STANLEY    
 
    By   
   
   /s/ Kevin Sheehan   

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to the Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 6.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on April 22, 2014, the creation of 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), of the Corporation was authorized and the
designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series G, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation, are
fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is  6.625%
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G.  Each share of Series G shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series G, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may
differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The authorized number of shares of
Series G shall be 20,000. Shares of Series G that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of
Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series G by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series G:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series G, as it may be
amended or supplemented from time to time.  

(e)   Certification of Incorporation   shall mean the amended and
restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (f)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (g)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15
of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (h)   Dividend Period   has the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).    (i)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (j)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (k)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series G
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (l)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (m)   Nonpayment   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (n)   Original Issue Date   means April 29, 2014.  
 (o)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series G in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference
$1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s
previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ), and the Corporation s Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ).    (p)   Preferred Stock   means any
and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series G.    (q)   Preferred Stock
Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (r)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event  
has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).    (s)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series
of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series G as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting
rights have  
      2  

been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F and the Series H. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the
shares of Series G and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series G will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on July 15, 2014. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.625%. In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series G after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized
committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.    Dividends that are payable on Series G on any Dividend
Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series G as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before
such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a
  Dividend Record Date  ).    A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series G issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series G and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series G issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the
Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series G for any Dividend Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series G issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the
Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement.  
 Holders of Series G shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series G as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series G will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series G payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series G are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
      3  

(b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series G will rank (i) senior to the
Common Stock and any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series G, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series G
(issued with the requisite consent of the holders of the Series G, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series H and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may
issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series G, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series G remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series G has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series G and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series G and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series G and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
      4  

Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other
property) may be determined by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series G, from time
to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series G shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.  
 (c)  Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends .   Dividends on the Series G will not be declared, paid or set aside
for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and
if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights.   
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series G shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series G in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series G as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series G will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
 (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or
proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series G and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series G as to such distribution, the amounts paid
to the holders of Series G and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series G and the holders of all such other stock. In any such
distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for
such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series G and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative
dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series G will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim
to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
      5  

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series G and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to
receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series G receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption.   
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series G (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series G shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, (ii) any proposed change in those
laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those
laws or regulations that is announced after April 22, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series G then outstanding as
 Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal
banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series G is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as
that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.    (b)  No
Sinking Fund . The Series G will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series G will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series G.  
      6  

(c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series G
shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not
more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series G designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series G.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series G are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of
Series G at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series G to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such
holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
 (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, the
shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series G shall be redeemed
from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.  
 (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date
specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series G so called for
redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to
accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of
the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the
holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.
 Voting Rights .    (a)  General . The holders of Series G shall not have any voting rights except as set forth
below and as determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.  
 (b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series G, or any
other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together
as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred 
 
      7  

Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock
Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at
least 20% of the Series G or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be
held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written notice,
signed by the requisite holders of Series G or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights will
continue until dividends on the shares of the Series G and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set aside for such payment) for at
least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when dividends for at least four
consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series G and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of
the Series G and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall
terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may
take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the
outstanding shares of the Series G together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any
vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of
the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series G and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not
cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent
directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series G or of any other series of
Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of
stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other
Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series G are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the
shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding  
      8  

and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be
necessary for effecting or validating:    (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series G with respect
to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;  
 (ii)  Amendment of Series G . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole; or  
 (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or
reclassification involving the Series G, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect
to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such
preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole;     provided ,  however , that for all purposes of
this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series G, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, or Series H or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or
series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series G.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c)
would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series G for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on
the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
      9  

(d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the
Series G, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series G, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the
Series G:    (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of
Designation that may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions
arising with respect to the Series G that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series G shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or
consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series G shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and
procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series G (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written
consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series G is listed or traded at the time.
Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series G are entitled to vote shall
be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.
 Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series G may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series G as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes,
and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series G shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series G shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or
granted.    11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series G shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      10  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 28 th  day of April, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By  
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: 
   
 Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to Series G Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on April 22, 2014, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series H, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H.  Each share of Series H shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series H, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series H shall be 52,000. Shares of Series H that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series H by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series H:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series H is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series H, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on July 15, 2014 and ending on July 15, 2019 and thereafter January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, subject to
adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
   (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series H
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means April 29, 2014.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series H in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%
Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
and the Corporation s 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ).  
 (v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series H.
   (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  
 (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).  
 (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking
equally with the Series H as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable.
Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F and the Series G. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series H and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any
matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series H will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, semi-annually in arrears on the 15 th  day of January and July of each year, commencing on July 15, 2014 and ending on July 15, 2019 and
thereafter quarterly in arrears on the 15 th  day of January, April, July and October of each year. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate
per annum equal to 5.45% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, July 15, 2019 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar
LIBOR on the related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.61% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including July 15, 2019 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of
Series H after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series H on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series H as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
      3  

A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series H issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series H and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2014 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series H issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include the
Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series H for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series H for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series H issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the July 15, 2019 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a
result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if
there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.  
      4  

The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its
calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series H shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series H as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series H will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series H payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series H are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series H will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series H, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series H (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series H, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly stated to be
senior or junior to the Series H, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series H remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series H has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or    
      5  

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series H and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series H and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series H and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series H, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series H shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends . Dividends on the Series H will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations,
including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series H shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series H in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series H as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect
of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series H will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.  
      6  

(b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a)
above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series H and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series H as
to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series H and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series H and the holders
of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the
assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series H and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount
equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series H will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this
Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.    (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series H and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation
ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.  
 (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series H receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series H (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series H shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
 A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result
of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, (ii) any
 
      7  

proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after April 22, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or
administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after April 22, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the
full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series H then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable,
the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series H is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means
the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series H will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series H will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series H.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series H shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series H designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series H. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series H are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series H at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series H
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series H at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series H shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series H so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest.  
      8  

Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called
for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series H shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series H, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series H or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series H or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series H and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series H and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series H and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series H together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a
Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none
 
      9  

remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series H and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting
together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s
securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of
the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series H or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series H are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series H and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series H with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series H . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series H, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series H, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series H remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series H, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
H, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, or Series G, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series H with respect to the payment of
dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series H.  
      10  

If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or
consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series H for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by
and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share
exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series H, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series H, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series H:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series H that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series H shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series H shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series H (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series H is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series H and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series H are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series H may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series H as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series H
shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws
or by applicable law.  
      11  

10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series H shall have any rights of preemption
whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series H shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 28 th  day of April, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY    

By   
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   [Signature Page to Series H Certificate of Designation]   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on September 11, 2014, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series I  ), of the Corporation
was authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series I, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of
the Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock
is  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I.  Each share of Series I shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series I, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue,
to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series I shall be 46,000. Shares of Series I that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series I by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series I:  
 (a)   Board  of Directors  means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time  

and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series I is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and
serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.    (e)
  Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series I, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.  
 (f)   Certification of Incorporation   shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the
Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.    (g)
  Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.    (h)
  Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.  
 (i)   Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15
of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).    (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series I
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means September 18, 2014.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series I in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A  ), the Corporation s previously issued 10%
Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
the Corporation s previously issued 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series H, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ).    (v)   Preferred
Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series I.    (w)
  Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital
Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means
any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series I as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G and the Series H. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the
shares of Series I and any other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends .  
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series I will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on January 15, 2015. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
6.375% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, October 15, 2024 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.708% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including October 15, 2024 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of Series I after
the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series I on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series I as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board
of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).  
      3  

A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a Dividend
Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series I issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the Original Issue
Date of the Series I and will end on and exclude the January 15, 2015 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series I issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include
the Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the
Series I for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series I for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period will be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series I issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the Original Issue Date.
If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the October 15, 2024 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as
a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which
case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined
for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as
directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth  
      4  

above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be
based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation
of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series I shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series I as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series I will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series I payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series I are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series I will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series I, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series I (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series I, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is not expressly
stated to be senior or junior to the Series I, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series I remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series I has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    
      5  

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series I and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series I and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series I and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series I, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series I shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends  .  Dividends on the Series I will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and
regulations, including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series I shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series I in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series I as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the  
      6  

date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series I will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial
Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series I and all holders of
any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series I as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate
Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series I and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to
such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series I
and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series I will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series I and any other
shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and
Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series I receive
cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation.    6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series I (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after October 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series I shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
      7  

A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith
determination by the Corporation that, as a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after
September 11, 2014, (ii) any proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after September 11, 2014, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative
action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after September 11, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full
liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series I then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the
capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series I is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the
 appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series I will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series I will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series I.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series I designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series I are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series I at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series I
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series I at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series I shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its  
      8  

other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series I so called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding
that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall
no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest.
Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for
payment of the redemption price of such shares.    7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series I shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series I, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series I or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series I or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series I and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series I and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series I and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at  
      9  

least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date
for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series I together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding
(voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a
Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series I and all Voting Preferred Stock
when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange
(or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be
taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series I or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next
annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
 (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series I are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of
stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series I and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series I with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series I . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series I, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series I, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series I remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series I, taken as a whole;  
      10  

provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in
the amount of the authorized or issued Series I, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, Series G, or Series H, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking
equally with the Series I with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series I.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series I for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the
matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification,
merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series I, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series I, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series I:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series I that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series I shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series I shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series I (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series I is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series I and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series I are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  
      11  

8.  Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and
the transfer agent for the Series I may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series I as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or communications in respect of Series I shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and
delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.  
 10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series I shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation,
or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series I shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 17 th  day of September, 2014.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By  
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: 
   
 Kevin Sheehan  

Title: 
   
 Assistant Treasurer  
 
   Signature Page to Certificate of Designation   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on March 12, 2015, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series J  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series J, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:    1.  Designation . The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J.  Each share of Series J shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series J, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.    2.  Number of Shares . The authorized number of
shares of Series J shall be 60,000. Shares of Series J that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares
of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series J by any subsidiary of the Corporation.  
 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series J:  
 (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.  
 (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to
time.    (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday
nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.  
 (d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as
such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure

that there is, at all relevant times when the Series J is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the
Corporation.    (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the
Series J, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time.    (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.  
 (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.  
 (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the second
London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.    (i)   Dividend Payment
Date   means January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on July 15, 2015 and ending on July 15, 2020 and thereafter January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year, subject to
adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a).    (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  
 (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to Series J
as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.  
 (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  
 (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  
 (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on
which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.    (s)   Nonpayment   has the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).    (t)   Original Issue Date   means March 19, 2015.  
 (u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the
Series J in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the Corporation s
 
      2  

previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A   ) , the Corporation s previously issued
10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,
liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ),
the Corporation s previously issued 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series H, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ) and the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, liquidation preference $25,000 per share
(  Series I  ).    (v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the
Corporation, including the Series J.    (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in
Section 7(b).    (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in
Section 6(a).    (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation ranking equally with the Series J as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H and the Series I. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J and any other Voting
Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.  
 4.  Dividends.   
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series J will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, semi-annually in arrears on the 15 th  day of January and July of each year, commencing on July 15, 2015 and ending on July 15, 2020 and
thereafter quarterly in arrears on the 15 th  day of January, April, July and October of each year. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate
per annum equal to 5.55% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, July 15, 2020 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar
LIBOR on the related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.81% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including July 15, 2020 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation issues additional shares of
Series J after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.  
 Dividends that are payable on Series J on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series J as they
appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day before  
      3  

such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior
to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a   Dividend Record Date  ).    A   Dividend Period   is
the period from and including a Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series J issued on the Original Issue Date will
commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series J and will end on and exclude the July 15, 2015 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series J issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for
such shares may commence on and include the Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next
Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series J for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series J for any Dividend
Period during the Floating Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series J issued on the Original Issue Date
will be calculated from the Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the July 15, 2020 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business
Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such
day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.
   For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by
the Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits
in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend
Determination Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of
each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three
months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single
transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR
will be determined for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the
Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single
transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth  
      4  

above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be
based on the initial dividend rate.    The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation
of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series J shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series J as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series J will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series J payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series J are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series J will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series J, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series J (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series J, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H, the Series I and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may issue that is
not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series J, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series J remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series J has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:      

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    
      5  

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series J and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series J and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series J and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of Directors
or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series J, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such
payment, and the Series J shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.    (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends.  Dividends on the Series J will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations,
including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.  
 5.  Liquidation Rights .  
 (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, holders of Series J shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if any, of
the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series J in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series J as to such distribution, a
liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the  
      6  

date of payment of such distribution (but without any accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series J will not be entitled to
any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference.    (b)  Partial
Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series J and all holders of
any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series J as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series J and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate
Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series J and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to
such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series J
and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series J will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after
they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.  
 (c)  Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series J and any other
shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.    (d)  Merger, Consolidation and
Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series J receive
cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation.    6.  Redemption .  
 (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series J (i) in whole or in part, from time
to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after July 15, 2020 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as provided in
Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation of any
undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series J shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared
and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption
date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.  
      7  

A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith
determination by the Corporation that, as a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after
March 12, 2015, (ii) any proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after March 12, 2015, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or
other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after March 12, 2015, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of Series J then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy
guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series J is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the  appropriate
federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.  
 (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series J will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series J will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series J.    (c)
 Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series J shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series J designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series J. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares representing interests in the Series J are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar
facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series J at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series J
to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.    (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only
part of the shares of Series J at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series J shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder
thereof.    (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the
redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of any shares of Series J so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to  
      8  

accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such
redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted
by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
 7.  Voting Rights .  
 (a)  General . The holders of Series J shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as determined by the
Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.    (b)  Right To
Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series J, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not
for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election
of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ),  provided  that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance
requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and  provided further  that the Board of Directors
shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors. In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request
of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series J or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which
event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment
shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series J or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required
by law. The voting rights will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series J and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of such dividends shall have been set
aside for such payment) for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.    If and when
dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment shall have been set aside) on the Series J and any other class or series of Voting
Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series J and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred
Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a
Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series J together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting  
      9  

together as a single class) to the extent such holders have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director
(other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding
shares of Series J and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate
governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a
vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series J or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is
received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each
be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.    (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series J are
outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series J and any Voting Preferred Stock at the
time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:  
 (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or
this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J with respect to the payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    (ii)  Amendment of Series J . Any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series J, taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers
and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series J, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series J remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series J, taken as a whole;  
  provided ,  however , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series
J, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, Series G, Series H or Series I, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the
 
      10  

Series J with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series J.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series J for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the
matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification,
merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
 (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series J, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series J, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series J:  
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or    (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect
to the Series J that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.    (e)  Changes after
Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series J shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series J shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6 above.    (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series J (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall
conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series J is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series J are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by
reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.     8. Record Holders.  To the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series J may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series J as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such
transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  
      11  

9.  Notices . All notices or communications in respect of Series J shall be sufficiently
given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
   10.  No Preemptive Rights . No share of Series J shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the
Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.  
 11.  Other Rights . The shares of Series J shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other
special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 18 th  day of March, 2015.       

MORGAN STANLEY    

By   
   
 /s/ Kevin Sheehan  

Name: Kevin Sheehan  

Title: Assistant Treasurer  
 
   Signature Page to Certificate of Designation   

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION OF PREFERENCES AND RIGHTS OF THE  
 FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K  
 (Liquidation Preference $25,000 per share)  
 OF    MORGAN STANLEY  
         
 Pursuant to Section 151 of the  
 General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware       
      Morgan Stanley,
a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the   Corporation  ), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that, pursuant to resolutions of the Preferred Stock Financing Committee (the   Committee  ) of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation adopted on January 24, 2017, the creation of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series K  ), of the Corporation was
authorized and the designation, preferences, privileges, voting rights, and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series K, in addition to those set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
Corporation, are fixed as follows:      1.  Designation.  The distinctive serial designation of such series of preferred stock is
 Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K.  Each share of Series K shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series K, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to
the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.        2.  Number of Shares.  The
authorized number of shares of Series K shall be 40,000. Shares of Series K that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock; provided that this Section 2 shall not apply to any purchase or other acquisition of shares of Series K by any subsidiary of the Corporation.    
 3.  Definitions.  As used herein with respect to Series K:  
   (a)   Board of Directors   means the board of directors of the Corporation.    
   (b)   Bylaws   means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from
time to time.        (c)   Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is
neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.    

(d)   Calculation Agent   means, at any time, the person or entity
appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to
ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series K is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.  
   (e)   Certificate of Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series K, as it
may be amended or supplemented from time to time.         (f)   Certification of Incorporation  
shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designation.     
   (g)   Common Stock   means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.    
   (h)   Dividend Determination Date   means, for each Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, the
second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.         (i)
  Dividend Payment Date   means January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year, subject to adjustment as described in Section 4(a).    
   (j)   Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    
   (k)   Dividend Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    
   (l)   Federal Reserve Board   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.    
   (m)   Fixed Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    
   (n)   Floating Rate Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).    
   (o)   Junior Stock   means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks junior to
Series K as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Junior Stock includes the Common Stock.    
   (p)   LIBOR   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).     
   (q)   Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).    
   (r)   London Business Day   means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is
a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.         (s)
  Nonpayment   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).        (t)   Original Issue
Date   means January 31, 2017.    
      2  

(u)   Parity Stock   means any other class or series of
stock of the Corporation that ranks equally with the Series K in the payment of dividends, whether cumulative or non-cumulative, and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. Parity stock includes the
Corporation s previously issued Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series A   ) , the Corporation s previously issued 10% Series C Non-Cumulative
Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (  Series C  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, liquidation preference $25,000 per
share (  Series E  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series F  ), the Corporation s previously
issued 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series G  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, liquidation
preference $25,000 per share (  Series H  ), the Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series I  ) and the
Corporation s previously issued Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (  Series J  ).    
   (v)   Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the
Series K.         (w)   Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
      (x)   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a). 
      (y)   Voting Preferred Stock   means any other class or series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation ranking equally with the Series K as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable. Voting Preferred Stock includes the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H, the Series I and the Series J. Whether a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series K and any
other Voting Preferred Stock have been voted in favor of any matter shall be determined by reference to the liquidation amounts of the shares voted.    
 4.  Dividends .     
 (a)  Rate . Holders of Series K will be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly
authorized committee of the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends from the Original Issue Date (in the case of the initial Dividend Period only) or the
immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date, quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing on April 15, 2017. These dividends will accrue on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to
5.850% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, April 15, 2027 (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) and at a rate per annum equal to the three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR on the
related Dividend Determination Date plus 3.491% with respect to each Dividend Period from and including April 15, 2027 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). In the event that the Corporation
 
      3  

issues additional shares of Series K after the Original Issue Date, dividends on such shares may accrue from the Original Issue Date or any other date specified by the Board of Directors or an
authorized committee thereof at the time such additional shares are issued.    Dividends that are payable on Series K on any
Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series K as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15 th  calendar day
before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a
  Dividend Record Date  ).    A   Dividend Period   is the period from and including a
Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date or any earlier redemption date, except that (i) the initial Dividend Period for any share of Series K issued on the Original Issue Date will commence on and include the
Original Issue Date of the Series K and will end on and exclude the April 15, 2017 Dividend Payment Date, and (ii) for any share of Series K issued after the Original Issue Date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on
and include the Original Issue Date or such other date as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall determine and publicly disclose and shall end on and exclude the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends
payable on the Series K for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable on the Series K for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate
Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in the Dividend Period. Dividends for the initial Dividend Period for shares of Series K issued on the Original Issue Date will be calculated from the
Original Issue Date. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date up to and including the April 15, 2027 scheduled Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, then the payment will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional
dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. If any scheduled Dividend Payment Date thereafter is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such day falls in the next
calendar month, in which case the Dividend Payment Date will be brought forward to the immediately preceding day that is a Business Day, and, in either case, dividends will accrue to, but excluding, the date dividends are paid.  
 For any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period, LIBOR (the London interbank offered rate) shall be determined by the
Calculation Agent on the Dividend Determination Date in the following manner:    (i) LIBOR will be the rate for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, that appears on Reuters screen page  LIBOR01 , or any successor page, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination
Date.    (ii) If no such rate appears, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four
major reference banks in the London interbank market, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period of three months, commencing
on the first day of such Dividend Period, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Dividend Determination Date  
      4  

and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Dividend
Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be determined for the first day of such Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m.,
New York time, on that Dividend Determination Date, by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent as directed by the Corporation, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a period of three months,
commencing on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time. If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth
above, LIBOR for that Dividend Determination Date will be the same as LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, or, if there was no such Dividend Period, the dividend payable will be based on the initial dividend rate.  
 The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any
Dividend Period, will be on file at the Corporation s principal offices, will be made available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  
   Reuters   means Reuters 3000 Xtra Service or any successor service.  
 Holders of Series K shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than
dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series K as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designation).  
 Dividends on shares of the Series K will not be cumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized
committee thereof) does not declare a dividend on the Series K payable in respect of any Dividend Period before the related Dividend Payment Date, such dividend will not accrue and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any future time, whether or not dividends on the Series K are declared for any future Dividend Period.  
 (b)  Priority of Dividends . The Series K will rank (i) senior to the Common Stock and any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be junior to the Series K, (ii) junior to any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock expressly stated to be senior to the Series K (issued with the requisite consent of the
holders of the Series K, if required) and (iii) equally with the Series A, the Series C, the Series E, the Series F, the Series G, the Series H, the Series I, the Series J and each other class or series of Preferred Stock the Corporation may
issue that is not expressly stated to be senior or junior to the Series K, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
 So long as any share of Series K remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be paid or declared on Junior Stock,
and no Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividend for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding
shares of Series K has been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to:  
      5  

repurchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Junior Stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors or consultants or (2) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder stock purchase plan;        

an exchange, redemption, reclassification or conversion of any class or series of Junior Stock, or any junior stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, for any class or series of Junior Stock;    

the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock under the conversion or exchange provisions of Junior Stock or the security being converted or exchanged;    

any declaration of a dividend in connection with any stockholders  rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any stockholders  rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights
pursuant to the plan; or        

any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or the stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend
is being paid or ranks equal or junior to that stock.      In addition, the foregoing limitation shall not
restrict the ability of Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.  
 When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or,
in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a related Dividend Period) in full upon the Series K and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends
declared on the Series K and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the
related Dividend Period) shall be declared  pro rata  so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series K and all Parity Stock payable on such
Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the related Dividend Period) bear to each other.  
 Subject to the foregoing, dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) may be determined by the Board of
Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any stock ranking, as to dividends, equally with or junior to the Series K, from time to time out of any funds legally available
for such payment, and the Series K shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.      (c)  Restrictions on the Payment
of Dividends.  Dividends on the Series K will not be declared, paid or set aside for payment if the Corporation fails to comply, or if and to the extent such act would cause the Corporation to fail to comply, with applicable laws and regulations,
including the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor appropriate federal banking agency) applicable to the Corporation.    
      6  

5.  Liquidation Rights.   
   (a)  Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation . Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the Corporation, holders of Series K shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors, if
any, of the Corporation and subject to the rights of holders of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series K in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series K as to such
distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to $25,000 per share, together with an amount equal to all dividends, if any, that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any
accumulation in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date). Holders of the Series K will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received their full liquidation preference. 
      (b)  Partial Payment . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the
Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series K and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series K as to such distribution, the
amounts paid to the holders of Series K and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preference of the holders of Series K and the holders of all such
other stock. In any such distribution, the   Liquidation Preference   of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the
Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series K and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any
unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable). Holders of the Series K will not be entitled to any other amounts from the Corporation after they have received the full amounts provided for in this Section 5 and
will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation s remaining assets.        (c)  Residual
Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series K and any other shares of the Corporation s stock ranking equally as to the Liquidation Preference, the holders of other stock of the Corporation
ranking junior as to the Liquidation Preference shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.     
   (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series K receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange
(for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.     
      7  

6.  Redemption.   
   (a)  Optional Redemption . The Corporation may, at its option, redeem the Series K (i) in whole or in part,
from time to time, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after April 15, 2027 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event (as defined below), in each case upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together with (except as otherwise provided herein below) any declared and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption, without accumulation
of any undeclared dividends. The redemption price for any shares of Series K shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any
declared and unpaid dividend for the then current Dividend Period payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the
redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.    
   A   Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as
a result of (i) any amendment to, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after January 24, 2017, (ii) any proposed change
in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after January 24, 2017, or (iii) any official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or
applying those laws or regulations that is announced after January 24, 2017, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series K
then outstanding as  Additional Tier 1  capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board (or, as and if applicable, the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of any successor
appropriate federal banking agency) as then in effect and applicable, for so long as any share of Series K is outstanding.   Appropriate federal banking agency   means the  appropriate federal banking agency  with respect to
the Corporation as that term is defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any successor provision.     
   (b)  No Sinking Fund . The Series K will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar
provisions. Holders of Series K will have no right to require the redemption or repurchase of any shares of Series K.     
   (c)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series K shall be given by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date
fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure to duly give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice
or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series K designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series K. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the depositary shares
representing interests in the Series K are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series K at such time and in any manner permitted by such
facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the     
      8  

number of shares of Series K to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the
redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.  
   (d)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series K at the time
outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata    or by lot. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of
Series K shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.    
   (e)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption
date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of any shares of Series K so
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall
cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the
right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.    
 7.  Voting Rights.   
   (a)  General . The holders of Series K shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below and as
determined by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof or as otherwise from time to time required by law.     
   (b)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever dividends on any shares of the Series
K, or any other Voting Preferred Stock, shall have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods (a   Nonpayment  ), the holders of such shares, voting
together as a class with holders of any and all other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of the Board of Directors (the   Preferred Stock
Directors  ),    provided    that the election of any such directors shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the
Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and    provided further    that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors.
In that event, the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically increase by two, and the new directors shall be elected at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series K or of
any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special
meeting of     
      9  

stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment shall be made by written
notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series K or other Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 9 below, or as may otherwise be required by law. The voting rights
will continue until dividends on the shares of the Series K and any such series of Voting Preferred Stock shall have been fully paid for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following the Nonpayment.  
 If and when dividends for at least four consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment have been fully paid on
the Series K and any other class or series of Voting Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series K and all other holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each subsequent
Nonpayment), the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate and the number of directors on the Board of Directors shall automatically decrease by two. In determining whether dividends have been paid for at least four
consecutive regular dividend periods following a Nonpayment, the Corporation may take account of any dividend it elects to pay for any dividend period after the regular dividend date for that period has passed. Any Preferred Stock Director may be
removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series K together with all series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (voting together as a single class) to the extent such holders
have the voting rights described above. So long as a Nonpayment shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election after a Nonpayment) may be filled by the written consent of the
Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series K and all Voting Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above
(voting together as a single class);  provided  that the filling of each vacancy shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other exchange on which the
Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. Any such vote to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting
called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series K or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the
stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
   (c)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series K are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or
consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of Series K and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon,
voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:     
   (i)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of the provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K with respect to the payment of dividends or
the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;    
      10  

(ii)  Amendment of Series K . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any
provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series K,
taken as a whole; or    (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a
binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series K, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series K remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or
consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than
the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series K, taken as a whole;     provided ,  however , that for all
purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series K, Series A, Series C, Series E, Series F, Series G, Series H, Series I or Series J, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with the Series K with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of, and will not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of Series K.  
 If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all other series of Voting Preferred Stock (including the Series K for this purpose), then only such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the
matter shall vote on the matter together as a class in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock. If all series of a class of Preferred Stock are not equally affected by the proposed amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification,
merger or consolidation described above, there shall be required a two-thirds approval of the class and a two-thirds approval of each series that will have a diminished status.  
   (d)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of the Series K, so long as such action does
not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series K, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series K:     
 (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designation that
may be defective or inconsistent; or  
      11  

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with
respect to the Series K that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designation.      (e)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series K shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which any such vote or
consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series K shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such
redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.      (f)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The
rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series K (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of
written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to
time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series K is listed or traded at the time.
Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series K and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series K are entitled to vote shall
be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.    8.
 Record Holders.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series K may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series K as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes,
and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.    9.  Notices.  All notices or
communications in respect of Series K shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designation, in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.    10.  No Preemptive Rights.  No share of Series K shall have any rights
of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or
granted.    11.  Other Rights.  The shares of Series K shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.  
      12  

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF , Morgan Stanley has caused this certificate to be
signed by Kevin Sheehan, its Assistant Treasurer, this 30 th  day of January, 2017.       

MORGAN STANLEY   

By  
   
   /s/ Kevin Sheehan   

Name: Kevin Sheehan   Title: Assistant
Treasurer   

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.4>
 3
 d328282dex104.htm
 EX-10.4

EX-10.4 

EXHIBIT 10.4  
  AMENDMENT TO THE   
  MORGAN STANLEY 401(k) PLAN   
 Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC (the  Company ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) as
follows:    1. Effective January 1, 2016, Section 2, Definitions, is amended by inserting  or sponsored 
after  maintained  and inserting  223,  after  401(k)  in the second sentence of the definition of  Earnings .  
 2. Effective January 1, 2016, Section 2, Definitions, is further amended by inserting  223,  after
 401(k)  in the first sentence of the definition of  Testing Compensation .    3. Effective
January 1, 2016, Appendix B, Morgan Stanley Participating Companies, is amended by replacing the reference to  Morgan Stanley Asset Management Inc.  with  Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.  and inserting the
following at the end of the list of Participating Companies therein:     Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.  
 MS Financing Inc.  
 Morgan Stanley Services Group Inc.  
 Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc.  
 Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services LLC  
 Morgan Stanley Private Bank, N.A.  
 Morgan Stanley NLE, LLC  
 Ceres Managed Futures LLC  
 Morgan Stanley Energy Capital, Inc.  
 Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc.   
 * * * * * * * * *    IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 13 th  day of December, 2016.  

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. LLC  

By: 
   
 /s/ Jeffrey Brodsky  
 
 Title: 
   
 Chief Human Resources Officer  

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.41>
 4
 d328282dex1041.htm
 EX-10.41

EX-10.41 

EXHIBIT 10.41  
 January 17, 2017    James A. Rosenthal  
 New York, New York      RE: Change of
Employment Status And Release Agreement      Dear Jim:  
 This letter sets forth our agreement (the  Agreement ) concerning the change of your employment status with Morgan Stanley. For
purposes of this Agreement, Morgan Stanley shall include Morgan Stanley and any and all former and existing parents, subsidiaries, predecessors, successors and affiliates ( Morgan Stanley ) and  you  shall include your heirs,
executors, administrators, attorneys, representatives, successors and assigns.    We have mutually agreed that your active employment with
Morgan Stanley ended on December 31, 2016, and that you will, except as otherwise provided below, remain on the payroll at your current base salary through July 31, 2017 (the  Termination Date ) (the period from January 1,
2017 through the Termination Date, the  Transition Period ). You will receive compensation (subject to applicable taxes and withholdings) for three (3) days of accrued vacation pursuant to applicable policy and consistent with
applicable law.    You may request and Morgan Stanley agrees to consider to accelerate your Termination Date ( Accelerated Termination
Date ). To the extent that you and Morgan Stanley agree to an Accelerated Termination Date, Morgan Stanley will provide you with a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to your base salary, minus applicable income taxes and withholdings,
from the Accelerated Termination Date through July 31, 2017. Payment will be made within thirty (30) days of the Accelerated Termination Date. Your employment will terminate for all purposes on the Termination Date or the Accelerated
Termination Date, as applicable.    In the event that you are employed by Morgan Stanley through the Termination Date, Morgan Stanley agrees
that you will remain a non-employee Senior Advisor of Morgan Stanley through such time as you commence new full-time employment or otherwise commence providing services full-time to any other entity or December 31, 2017, whichever comes first.
 
      1  

Provided you obtain the prior advance approval of the Global Head of Human Resources, Morgan
Stanley agrees that you may provide services on a less than full-time basis during the Transition Period and until the date on which you cease to be a Senior Advisor.  
 Through December 31, 2016, you remained a member of the Firm s Operating Committee and an Executive Officer with all of the
obligations and responsibilities associated with those positions. You understand and agree that, as of January 1, 2017, you are no longer an officer of any Morgan Stanley entity or subsidiary and you agree to submit your resignation as Chairman
of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, N.A.    Further, you will also be eligible for continued participation in all
welfare and other benefit and retirement plans and programs through the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date (as defined herein), as applicable, with further participation in the medical plan through the last day of the month in
which your employment terminates. Thereafter, you are eligible and may elect to participate in the Executive Retiree Medical Plan, as in effect from time to time on a basis substantially similar to other former Operating Committee members (who are
eligible for this benefit), which currently provides medical coverage to you and your spouse for your and your spouse s lifetimes.  
 You have Twenty-One (21) days from the date of this Agreement to consider whether to sign it (the  Twenty-One Day Period ). You
must return the signed Agreement as instructed below under the Further Promises section on the next business day immediately following the end of the Twenty-One Day Period. This Agreement shall become effective and enforceable seven (7) days
after you execute it, return it and do not revoke it.      Payments and Benefits    
 We have also mutually agreed that in exchange for your executing, not revoking and returning this Agreement:  
 (1) Morgan Stanley will provide you with a 2016 Above Base Compensation award (the  Bonus ) in the amount determined by the
Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (the  CMDS Committee ), which Bonus shall be comprised of a mix of current cash bonus, a deferred cash incentive compensation award
and a deferred equity incentive compensation award in the form of restricted stock units as determined by the CMDS Committee and shall be awarded at such times as bonuses are awarded to active employees in 2017.  
      2  

(2) The outstanding unvested equity and deferred incentive compensation held by you as of the
Termination Date or Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable, as described in the relevant equity-based and other deferred incentive compensation award certificates and other award documentation (including those granted as part of subsection
(1) above), will vest on the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable (other than those awards which by their terms vest earlier than such date). For the avoidance of doubt, (i) no vested or unvested equity or
deferred incentive compensation held by you shall be subject to forfeiture or clawback based on your violation of any of the Competitive Activity covenants set forth in the award certificates or other award documents; and (ii) all such vested
and unvested equity and deferred compensation will become payable on their respective originally scheduled payment dates. Furthermore, with respect to each outstanding performance stock unit award held by you as of the Termination Date or
Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable, you will vest in a number of performance stock units equal to the number of shares of Morgan Stanley common stock that would have been payable to you, based on the performance measures set forth in the
respective original award agreement, had you remained in employment through the respective originally scheduled conversion date.    (3)
Morgan Stanley will provide you with office space at a Morgan Stanley location in mid-town Manhattan, the use of your current Executive Assistant, and continued access to Morgan Stanley s electronic systems through the expiration of your status
as Senior Advisor.    (4) Morgan Stanley will provide you with continued access to your primary care physician in the Morgan Stanley
Executive Healthcare Program through December 31, 2017.    In addition, you understand and agree that if any provision of this
Agreement fails to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 409A ) or any regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder, or would result in your recognizing income for United States
federal income tax purposes with respect to any amount payable under this Agreement before the date of payment, or to incur interest or additional tax pursuant to Section 409A, Morgan Stanley reserves the right to, after conferring with you in
good faith to find a reasonable solution, reform such provision; provided that Morgan Stanley shall maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without violating the provisions of Section 409A.
   We have also agreed that all terms of your Morgan Stanley equity-based and other deferred incentive compensation awards that have been
granted to you during the course of your Morgan Stanley employment, as applicable, as of the Termination Date, will not be deemed to be modified by this Agreement. You understand and agree that you remain subject to all conditions, restrictions and
risks  
      3  

inherent in the plans and the awards, except as otherwise provided herein, including but not limited to, the vesting, conversion and forfeiture/cancellation provisions of the respective awards.
Please consult the relevant award certificates and other award documentation for the controlling terms of such awards. You acknowledge that any vesting or payments in equity or cash described in the respective awards are subject to any applicable
tax withholding requirements. You also acknowledge that Morgan Stanley, from time to time in its sole discretion, may modify or change its policies with respect to the sale of Morgan Stanley stock by former and existing employees. You agree to fully
abide by any such policies with respect to the sale of Morgan Stanley stock and any window period or other restrictions which may apply, or become applicable to you, during the term of this Agreement and thereafter.  
 You understand and agree that the foregoing consideration provided to you under the terms of this Agreement is in addition to anything of
value to which you are otherwise entitled. You represent, warrant and acknowledge that Morgan Stanley owes you no wages, commissions, bonuses, sick or other medical or disability-related pay, personal or other leave-of-absence pay, severance pay,
notice pay, vacation pay, or other compensation or payments or form of remuneration of any kind or nature, other than that specifically provided for in this Agreement.  
 You acknowledge and agree that your receipt of any and all payments and benefits provided in this Agreement is contingent upon (a) your
remaining an employee in good standing through the Termination Date or Accelerated Termination Date (including your death or disability prior to the Termination Date) or any Accelerated Termination Date initiated by Morgan Stanley, as the case may
be, and adhering to the terms of this Agreement, and all Morgan Stanley policies applicable to you and (b) your execution and non-revocation thereafter and receipt by Morgan Stanley of this effective and enforceable Agreement. You further agree
that you will not hold yourself out to be an officer, director, manager or agent of Morgan Stanley or otherwise attempt to bind or contract on behalf of Morgan Stanley without prior written authorization of Morgan Stanley after December 31,
2016.    In addition, in exchange for the payments and other benefits provided to you hereunder by Morgan Stanley, we agree that, through
and including December 31, 2017, you will not directly or indirectly in any capacity (including through any person, corporation, partnership or business entity of any kind), hire or solicit, recruit, induce, entice, influence, or encourage any
Morgan Stanley employee to leave Morgan Stanley for or to otherwise become hired or engaged by any entity. The restrictions in this paragraph shall apply only to employees with whom you worked or had professional or business contact, or who worked
in or with your business unit, during the 180 day period preceding December 31,  
      4  

2016 ( Wrongful Solicitation ). Notwithstanding the restrictions in this paragraph, we agree that you may solicit and retain your current Executive Assistant and any such solicitation
or hire will not be deemed a violation of this section. In addition, you may provide personal references for such employees and general advertisements not targeted at such employees and such actions will not be deemed a violation of this section.
   You also understand and agree that all outstanding claims for expenses incurred properly in the performance of your duties must be
submitted as soon as possible but in no event later than six (6) weeks after the Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable.  
 General information about continuing benefit coverage will be sent to your home address by the Benefit Center two to three weeks following the
Termination Date or the Accelerated Termination Date, as applicable. Specific information regarding continuation of your medical benefits will be sent to your home address by Hewitt Associates two to three weeks following termination of coverage.
You have sixty (60) days from the date of receipt to elect COBRA coverage. Inquiries about your benefits should be directed to the Benefit Center at 1-877-674-7411.  
   Release of Claims    
 In exchange for providing you with these enhanced payments and benefits, you agree to release and waive any and all claims against Morgan
Stanley and its respective current and former directors, officers, employees, agents, managers, and shareholders ( Morgan Stanley Releasees ) and to release and forever discharge Morgan Stanley Releasees, to the fullest extent permitted by
law, from any and all liability for any claims, rights or damages of any kind, whether known or unknown to you, that you may have against Morgan Stanley Releasees related to your employment or termination of employment as of the date of your
execution of this Agreement (subject to Morgan Stanley paying outstanding deferred compensation on the scheduled payment dates) including, but not limited to, any claim against Morgan Stanley Releasees, based on or arising under any federal, state
or local law or ordinance, any tort, any employment contract, express or implied, any public policy waivable by law, any claim based on or arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended,
the Equal Pay Act, as amended, the Uniform Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act ( USERRA ), as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 ( ADEA ), as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act
( ADA ), as amended, the Family And Medical Leave Act ( FMLA ), as amended, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ), as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act  
      5  

( OWBPA ), as amended, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( WARN ), as amended, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ( OSHA ), as
amended, the New York State Human Rights Law, as amended, the New York City Human Rights Law, as amended, the New York Labor Act, as amended, the New York Equal Pay Law, as amended, the New York Civil Rights Law, as amended, the New York Rights of
Persons With Disabilities Law, as amended, the New York Equal Rights Law, as amended, the New York Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended, and any other discrimination or fair housing law, if applicable, and all claims for
invasion of privacy, defamation, intentional infliction of emotional distress, injury to reputation, pain and suffering, constructive and wrongful discharge, retaliation, wages, vacation pay, award(s), grant(s), or awards under any unvested and/or
cancelled equity and/or incentive compensation plan or program, and separation and/or severance pay under any separation or severance pay plan maintained by Morgan Stanley, any other employee benefit plans or fringe benefit plans, medical plans,
attorneys  fees or any other monetary or equitable relief from Morgan Stanley, or any demand to seek discovery of any of the claims, rights or damages previously enumerated herein (collectively, the  Release of Claims ). This
Agreement is not intended to, and does not, release rights or claims that may arise after the date of your execution hereof including without limitation any rights or claims that you may have to secure enforcement of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement or from challenging the validity or enforceability of this Release of Claims. This Agreement also is not intended to, and does not prevent or bar you from filing an administrative charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
( EEOC ) or any state or local fair employment practices agency or from communicating or cooperating with or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by such administrative agency. You acknowledge and agree, however,
that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, you are waiving and releasing any claim or right to recover from Morgan Stanley Releasees any monetary damages or any other form of personal relief based upon any such charge, investigation or proceeding
to the extent it is based on any claim, charge, complaint or action against Morgan Stanley Releasees, covered by the Release of Claims. If any claim, charge, complaint or action covered by the Release of Claims is filed or brought against Morgan
Stanley Releasees by you, for your benefit or on your behalf, you expressly waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claim or right to recover from Morgan Stanley Releasees any monetary damages or any other form of personal
relief including attorneys  fees and costs based upon any such claim, charge, complaint or action. To the extent you receive any monetary damages or any other form of personal relief from Morgan Stanley Releasees based upon any such claim,
charge, complaint or action, Morgan Stanley Releasees will be entitled to an offset for the  
      6  

payments made pursuant to this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to take all
actions necessary to dismiss with prejudice any pending civil lawsuit or arbitration covered by the Release of Claims. In addition, nothing in this Agreement precludes you without offset from (i) receiving and retaining a monetary award from a
government-administered award program for providing information directly to a government agency, or (ii) benefiting from any classwide injunctive relief awarded in any fair employment practices case brought by any governmental agency, provided
such classwide injunctive relief does not result in your receipt of any monetary benefit or equivalent thereof from Morgan Stanley.   This
Agreement, however, does not waive any rights of indemnification you may have been granted under the Certificates of Incorporation or Formation, Bylaws or other applicable documents of Morgan Stanley relating to your actions on behalf of Morgan
Stanley in the scope of and during the course of your employment by Morgan Stanley, or any rights to coverage, advancement of expenses, and/or legal fees under any governing D O insurance policy maintained by Morgan Stanley. Nor does anything in
this Agreement impair your rights in any of your Morgan Stanley Wealth Management brokerage or customer accounts or to vested retirement, pension or 401(k) benefits, if any, due you by virtue of your employment by Morgan Stanley, or as a shareholder
of Morgan Stanley. Nor shall any elections, notices or benefits for which you are eligible as a separated employee of Morgan Stanley be impaired by this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, this Agreement shall not prevent you from contesting any
future clawback of incentive compensation by Morgan Stanley. In addition, in exchange for the promises and other good and valuable consideration contained herein, Morgan Stanley hereby waives all claims against you and releases and discharges you
from any and all liability for any claims or damages of any kind, whether known or unknown, as of the date of Morgan Stanley s execution of this Agreement relating to your employment or termination of employment, including, but not limited to,
any claim arising under any federal, state or local law or ordinance, any tort, any contract, express or implied; provided, however, that Morgan Stanley does not waive or release: (1) its right to enforce the terms and conditions of this
Agreement; (2) any liabilities, claims and demands (whether asserted directly, derivatively or otherwise) which directly or indirectly result from any illegal conduct, act of fraud, theft, or violation of regulation or law committed by you;
(3) its right to file claims or cross claims in any action brought by a third party or person in any action for which Morgan Stanley is entitled to indemnification or contribution; or (4) any amounts owed by you to Morgan Stanley or any of
its affiliated entities.  
      7  

Confidentiality, Firm Property, Non-Disclosure and Non-Disparagement    
 You also agree that in the course of your employment with Morgan Stanley you have acquired non-public privileged or confidential information
and trade secrets concerning Morgan Stanley s business, operations, legal matters and resolution or settlement thereof, internal investigations, customer and employee information and lists, hiring, staffing and compensation practices, studies
and analyses, plans, funding, financing and methods of doing business whether in hard copy, electronic or other format ( Confidential and Proprietary Information ), and you further agree that it would be damaging to Morgan Stanley if such
Confidential and Proprietary Information were disclosed to any competitor of Morgan Stanley or any third party or person. You understand and agree that all Confidential and Proprietary Information has been divulged to you in confidence and, except
as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement or in litigation between you and Morgan Stanley to enforce the terms of this Agreement (and then only subject to a protective order and without waiver by Morgan Stanley of
any privilege) and to the fullest extent permitted by law, you agree: (1) to not disclose or cause or permit to be disclosed directly or indirectly any Confidential and Proprietary Information to any third party or person; (2) to keep all
Confidential and Proprietary Information secret and confidential without limitation in time; and, (3) to not remove Confidential and Proprietary Information from any Morgan Stanley facility in either original, electronic or copied form. Your
use of Confidential and Proprietary Information will stop immediately upon the cessation of your working at any Morgan Stanley facility for any reason. You will not at any time assert any claim of ownership or other property interest in any such
Confidential and Proprietary Information. Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, you will not disclose directly or indirectly to any person or entity the
contents, in whole or in part, of such Confidential and Proprietary Information.    Prior to the Termination Date or the Accelerated
Termination Date, you further agree to return to Morgan Stanley any Morgan Stanley equipment and property including, but not limited to, identification materials, computers, laptops, printers, facsimile machines, corporate credit cards, and wireless
devices (e.g., mobile phones, SecurIDs, BlackBerry and similar devices), that you possess or control. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, you shall be entitled to retain (i) papers and other materials of a personal
nature, including but not limited to, photographs, personal correspondence, personal diaries, personal calendars, contact lists, rolodexes and personal files, (ii) information showing your awards, compensation, or relating to expense
reimbursements, (iii) information that you reasonably believe may be needed for tax purposes, (iv) copies of plans, programs and agreements relating to your employment, or termination thereof, with Morgan Stanley and (v) documents
held on account of being a Morgan Stanley shareholder. Morgan Stanley retains the right under this paragraph to retain copies of any items included in the exceptions above which it deems related to the performance of your duties on behalf of Morgan
Stanley.  
      8  

During the course of your employment with Morgan Stanley, you may have been instructed by the
Legal and Compliance Division ( LCD ) to preserve information, documents or other materials, whether in physical or electronic form, in connection with litigation, investigations, or proceedings. You acknowledge that you have taken all
necessary steps to comply with any notices you received from LCD to preserve such information, documents or materials. Furthermore, you acknowledge that you have notified a member of LCD of the location of all such information, documents or
materials currently in your possession.    Unless permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, both Morgan
Stanley and you also agree not to disclose or cause, or permit to be disclosed (if circumstances place either party in a position to reasonably prevent the disclosure) in any way the terms of this Agreement or the facts and circumstances surrounding
its execution, or the facts and circumstances relating to any dispute or disagreement you may have, or may believe you have, with Morgan Stanley with respect to your employment, workplace or work environment at and separation from Morgan Stanley,
without limitation in time, except that you may disclose such information to your legal representatives, to your immediate family, or for the purpose of enforcing this Agreement, should that ever be necessary, and further you may disclose the
financial aspects of this Agreement to your financial representatives or accountants or for the purpose of qualifying for a loan provided that all such private parties to whom disclosure is permitted under this paragraph are informed of the
confidentiality provisions of this Agreement and agree to be bound thereby. You may also disclose the restrictive covenants to any prospective future employer, business partner or partners, or search personnel without violation hereto. Further, this
provision is expressly not intended in any way to limit you from disclosing the financial structure and tax aspects of this Agreement to the Internal Revenue Service. Morgan Stanley may disclose such information: (i) to its legal
representatives; (ii) for the purpose of enforcing this Agreement, should that ever be necessary, or (iii) as may be required by law or any proceeding provided that all such private parties to whom disclosure is permitted under this
paragraph are informed of the confidentiality provisions of this Agreement and agree to be bound thereby. Morgan Stanley shall limit disclosure within Morgan Stanley of this Agreement and its terms to those individuals who need to know the terms of
this Agreement in connection with the performance of their duties on behalf of Morgan Stanley.  
      9  

Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, you agree to give prompt notice to Morgan Stanley in writing, addressed to Employment Law, Morgan Stanley, Legal and Compliance Division, 1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35th Floor, New York, NY 10020, by telephone
212-762-4664 and by facsimile 212-762-4767, of any subpoena or judicial, administrative or regulatory inquiry or proceeding, or lawsuit in which you are required or requested to disclose information relating to Morgan Stanley prior to such
disclosure unless any such prior notice requirement is prohibited by law. To the extent reasonably practicable, such written notice must be given to Employment Law within three (3) business days of your receipt of any such request or order so
that Morgan Stanley may take whatever action it may deem necessary or appropriate to prevent such assistance or testimony. You also agree that, to the extent reasonably practicable, you shall provide to Employment Law by facsimile or overnight
delivery to the above address within three (3) business days of your receipt thereof copies of all legal papers and documents served upon you. Additionally, you agree that in the event you are served with such subpoena, court order, directive
or other process, you will make all reasonable effort to meet with Employment Law or its designee in advance of giving such testimony or information in the event you are served with any such subpoena, court order, directive or other process unless
any such prior meeting requirement is prohibited by law.    You agree to cooperate with and assist Morgan Stanley in connection with any
investigation, regulatory matter, lawsuit or arbitration in which Morgan Stanley is a subject, target or party and as to which you may have pertinent information. You agree to make yourself reasonably available for preparation for hearings,
proceedings or litigation and for attendance at any pre-trial discovery and trial sessions. Morgan Stanley agrees to make every reasonable effort to provide you with reasonable notice in the event your participation is required. You shall not be
required to cooperate against your own legal interests.    To the extent that you incur any out of pocket costs as a result of your
fulfillment of your obligations under either of the two preceding paragraphs, Morgan Stanley agrees to reimburse reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by you as the direct result of your participation, provided that such out-of-pocket costs are
supported by appropriate documentation and have prior authorization of Morgan Stanley. Such costs may include, without limitation, demonstrably lost wages, travel expenses and legal fees to the extent that separate legal representation is reasonably
warranted. You further agree to perform all acts and execute any and all documents that may be reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph.  
      10  

Except as permitted under the  Exceptions  provisions in this Agreement, and to the
fullest extent permitted by law, you also agree that you will not defame or disparage Morgan Stanley and its current or former (in regard to such persons  relationship with Morgan Stanley) directors, officers, employees, agents, managers,
shareholders, or clients or its business or its strategic plans, products, practices, policies, personnel, legal matters or any other internal Morgan Stanley matter or otherwise speak of any of the foregoing in a disparaging manner in any medium or
to any person or entity including but not limited to any person whom you should be reasonably aware is a reporter, author, producer or similar person or entity without limitation in time. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to: (i) limit in
any way your ability to compete fairly with Morgan Stanley in the future; (ii) prevent you from responding to incorrect or disparaging statements to the extent reasonably necessary to correct or refute such statements; (iii) prevent you
from conferring in confidence with your legal representatives or testifying truthfully or making truthful statements or submissions in litigation or other legal, administrative or regulatory proceedings or internal investigations; or
(iv) prevent you from testifying truthfully in any legal proceeding. Morgan Stanley agrees to inform the members of the Operating Committee as of the date of this Agreement and for so long as he/she remains an employee of Morgan Stanley, not to
defame or disparage you or otherwise speak of you in a disparaging manner in any medium or to any person or entity. Notwithstanding this provision, Morgan Stanley may confer in confidence with its human resources, legal and financial
representatives.    You further agree that you will not use or take any action likely to result in the use of any of Morgan Stanley s
names or any abbreviation thereof in connection with any publication to the general public in any medium in a manner that suggests, directly or indirectly, endorsement by or a business connection to Morgan Stanley or appears to leverage the Morgan
Stanley brand, other than indicating in a bio or website or similar venue (including on a job interview) the facts of your prior employment at Morgan Stanley.  
   Exceptions    
 Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit or restrict you from (A) initiating communications directly with, cooperating with, providing
relevant information to or otherwise assisting in an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the EEOC, or any other governmental or regulatory body or official(s) or self-regulatory
organization  
      11  

( SRO ) regarding a possible violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation; (B) responding to any inquiry from any such governmental or regulatory body or official or SRO or
governmental authority, including an inquiry about this Agreement or its underlying facts or circumstances; or (C) testifying, participating or otherwise assisting in any action or proceeding relating to a possible violation of a law, rule or
regulation. Further, nothing in this Agreement requires you to notify Morgan Stanley of any such communications, cooperation, assistance, responses to inquiries, testimony or participation as described in the preceding sentence. 
   Further Promises    
 Except as otherwise provided herein, you agree to comply with the applicable provisions contained in your Notice and Non-Solicitation
Agreement and nothing in this Agreement supersedes or in any way modifies your obligations thereunder.    In the event you breach or
threaten to breach any of the provisions contained in any confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-disparagement or non-solicitation provisions in this Agreement, you acknowledge that such breach or threatened breach shall cause irreparable harm to
Morgan Stanley, entitling Morgan Stanley, at its option, to seek immediate injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without waiver of any other rights or remedies from a court of law or equity.  
 You acknowledge that this Agreement has been executed voluntarily by you. You are urged to and acknowledge that you have had the opportunity
to obtain the advice of any attorney or other representative of your choice, unrelated to Morgan Stanley, prior to executing this Agreement. Further, you acknowledge that you have a full understanding of the terms of this Agreement which may not be
changed or altered except by a writing signed by both Morgan Stanley and you.    You agree and acknowledge that: (i) you have been
given the Twenty-One Day Period to consider executing this Agreement and seven (7) days from the date of your execution of this Agreement within which to revoke it (the seven (7) day period defined as the  Agreement Revocation
Period ) and (ii) you had sufficient time in which to consider and understand the Agreement, and to consult with your attorney or other representative of your choice prior to executing the Agreement. If you execute the Agreement prior to
the end of the Twenty-One Day Period that Morgan Stanley has provided for you, you agree and acknowledge that: (i) your execution was a knowing and voluntary waiver of your right to consider this Agreement for the full Twenty-One Period;
(ii) you had the Agreement Revocation Period to revoke it; and, (iii) you had sufficient time in which to consider and understand the Agreement, and to review it with your attorney or other representative of your choice. Your executed
Agreement must be returned to the  
      12  

undersigned, 1585 Broadway, 40th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Any revocation of this Agreement must be in writing and returned to the same address, via certified U.S. Mail, return receipt
requested. In the event that you revoke this Agreement, you acknowledge that you will not be entitled to receive, and agree not to accept, any payments or benefits under this Agreement. You agree that your acceptance of any such payments or benefits
will constitute an acknowledgment that you did not revoke the Agreement. This Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until the Agreement Revocation Period has expired.  
  BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU ARE KNOWINGLY AND
VOLUNTARILY WAIVING AND RELEASING ANY AND ALL RIGHTS YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST MORGAN STANLEY UP TO THE DATE OF YOUR EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT UNDER THE AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT, THE OLDER WORKERS BENEFIT PROTECTION ACT AND ALL OTHER
APPLICABLE DISCRIMINATION LAWS, STATUTES, ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS.     The Agreement is the entire agreement between you and Morgan
Stanley and supersedes any and all oral and written agreements between Morgan Stanley and you on the topics covered herein, except any Arbitration Agreement, Notice and Non-Solicitation Agreement, and any award certificates and any other award
documentation governing any outstanding incentive compensation, and prior commitments on your part concerning confidential information, trade secrets, copyrights, patents or other intellectual property and the like which shall continue in effect in
accordance with their terms. This Agreement is intended solely for the purpose stated herein and does not constitute and should not be construed to be an admission of liability by Morgan Stanley or you. This Agreement shall be binding on both Morgan
Stanley and you. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, PDF or facsimile copies and all shall be effective and binding as an original.  
 This Agreement shall be interpreted for all purposes consistent with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of law
principles. Should any provision of this Agreement be declared or be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction or other appropriate forum to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable in whole or in part, with the exception of the Release of
Claims paragraph, the validity of the remaining parts, terms or provisions shall not be affected thereby and said illegal or invalid part, term or provision shall be deemed not to be a part of this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended, modified
or changed only by a written instrument executed by you and Morgan Stanley. Any waiver to be effective must be in writing and signed by the party against whom it is being enforced.  
      13  

All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered by
hand, by PDF or facsimile to the other party or mailed by overnight mail or registered or certified mail to the other party, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt or in the case of registered or
certified mail, upon the earlier of the actual receipt or two business days following the date postmarked; and shall be addressed as follows:      

If to you: 
    
   James A. Rosenthal   New York, New
York   

If to Morgan Stanley: 
    
   Alexa B. Pappas   Legal   Compliance
Division   1221 Avenue of the Americas, 35 th  Floor 
 New York, New York 10020   
   or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  

Very truly yours,  

/s/ Jeffrey S. Brodsky   
 
   Jeffrey S. Brodsky   Executive Vice
President   Chief Human Resources Officer   

AGREED AND ACCEPTED:  

/s/ James A. Rosenthal  
 
 James A. Rosenthal  
 
      14  

</EX-10.41>

<EX-12>
 5
 d328282dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12   
  Morgan Stanley      Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
Charges      and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends   
  (unaudited)       

1. 
 Amounts represent earnings before income taxes and do not include dividends on preferred securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, noncontrolling interests and income or loss from equity investees.

2. 
 Fixed charges do not include interest expense on uncertain tax liabilities as the Firm records these amounts within the Provision for (benefit from) income taxes.    

3. 
 Amounts consist of interest cost, including interest on deposits and capitalized interest.    

4. 
 The preferred stock dividends amount represents pre-tax earnings required to cover dividends on preferred stock.    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 d328282dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21   
  Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley*   
  As of December 31, 2016     * Pursuant
to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, the names of certain other subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  as that term
is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.      

Company  
    
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Formation    

Morgan Stanley  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Senior Funding  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Portfolio Management LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Equity Services Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Fixed Income Ventures Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Management, LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney FA Notes Holdings LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Prime Dealer Services Corp.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Delta Holdings LLC  
    
 New York  
 
   Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.  
    
 Federal Charter  
 
   Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association  
    
 Federal Charter  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Holdings Inc.  
    
 Delaware  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley (Hong Kong) Holdings Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1238 Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Securities Products LLC  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Asia Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   MSJL Holdings Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Japan Holdings Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Morgan Stanley International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley UK Group  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investments (UK)  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Morgan Stanley Poggio Secco Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Clare S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley San Donato S.a r.l.  
    
 Luxembourg  
 
   Morgan Stanley Syrah Two Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  
 
   Morgan Stanley Donegan Limited  
    
 Cayman Islands  

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 d328282dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1   
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements (as amended) of our reports dated February 27, 2017, relating to
the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Firm ), and the effectiveness of the Firm s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form  10-K  of Morgan Stanley for the year ended December 31, 2016:      
    /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   
 New York, New York    February 27, 2017  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 d328282dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   
 Certification    I, James P. Gorman, certify that:

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of Morgan Stanley;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 27, 2017      

/s/ JAMES P.
GORMAN                                        

James P. Gorman   
 
   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 d328282dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2   
 Certification    I, Jonathan Pruzan, certify that:

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of Morgan Stanley;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
 13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 27, 2017      

/s/ JONATHAN
PRUZAN                                        

Jonathan Pruzan   
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 d328282dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1   
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
 In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James P. Gorman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      

1. 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

2. 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/ S / JAMES P. GORMAN   
 
   James P. Gorman   
 
   Chairman of the Board and   
 
   Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Dated: February 27, 2017  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 d328282dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2   
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
 In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the  Company ) on Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jonathan Pruzan, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      

1. 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

2. 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/ S / JONATHAN PRUZAN   
 
   Jonathan Pruzan   
 
   Executive Vice President and   
 
   Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Dated: February 27, 2017  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 ms-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 ms-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 ms-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 ms-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 ms-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 ms-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

