<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080215_10-K_edgar_data_12927_0001193125-08-032328_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2900828</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>766784</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>45884</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1738799</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>194</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-032328.hdr.sgml : 20080215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080215133709
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-032328
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BOEING CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000012927
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT [3721]
		IRS NUMBER:				910425694
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00442
		FILM NUMBER:		08621975

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 3707 MS 1F 31
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98124
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2066552121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 N RIVERSIDE PLZ
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60606

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOEING AIRPLANE CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730725

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IUsN33fJuB8ZblqZvo/ayf7KUmSVaksE3mbUkNA0qVRGPUb021kCZ/6lywJbpQUT
 04qxKpINALOPIls0LAHPVg==

 0001193125-08-032328.txt : 20080215

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              FORM 10-K             (Mark One)         
          For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2007             OR         
          For the transition period
from                          to
                                     Commission file number  1-442              THE BOEING COMPANY              (Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)          
          Registrant s telephone
number, including area code  (312) 544-2000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:          

Title of
each class                    

Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $5 par value  

New York Stock Exchange   
           Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None             Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes       X         No                          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes                  No       X                     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes       X         No                 
           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer
and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):            Large
Accelerated Filer               Accelerated Filer               Non-Accelerated Filer       
                   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes             No                     As of June 30, 2007, there were 754,025,903 common shares outstanding held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, and the aggregate
market value of the common shares (based upon the closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange) was approximately $72.5 billion.            The number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of February 8, 2008 was 764,833,186.            (This number includes 31 million outstanding shares held by the ShareValue Trust which are not eligible to vote.)             DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE             Part I and Part II incorporate information by reference to certain portions of the
Company s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders. Part III incorporates information by reference to the registrant s definitive proxy statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year.   

Table of Contents  

THE BOEING COMPANY              FORM 10-K              For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2007              INDEX          

Page     
 
                  Part I                 

Item 1.  

Business    
      
  1   

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors     
      
  5   

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments     
      
  12   

Item 2.  

Properties    
      
  12   

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings    
      
  12   

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders and Executive Officers of the Registrant     
      
  13   
 
      Part II     

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
      
  17   

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data     
      
  18   

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
      
  19   

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
      
  47   

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  48   

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
      
  110   

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures     
      
  110   

Item 9B.  

Other Information     
      
  110   
 
      Part III     

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
      
  112   

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation     
      
  112   

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
      
  112   

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  113   

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  113   
 
      Part IV     

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  114   

Signatures      
 Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     
      
  119 120   

Exhibit (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
      
  120   

Exhibit (21)   List of Company Subsidiaries    
      
  121   

Exhibit (23)   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
      
  128   

Exhibit (31)(i)   CEO Section 302 Certification    
      
  129   

Exhibit (31)(ii)   CFO Section 302 Certification   
      
  130   

Exhibit (32)(i)   CEO Section 906 Certification    
      
  131   

Exhibit (32)(ii)   CFO Section 906 Certification   
      
  132   

Table of Contents  

    FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO RISK AND UNCERTAINTY              Certain statements in this report may constitute  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based upon
assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak only as of the date they were made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Words such as  expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates,  and similar expressions are used to
identify these forward-looking statements. These include, among others, statements relating to:         

the effect of economic downturns or growth in particular regions;    

the adequacy of coverage, by allowance for losses, of risks related to our non-U.S. accounts receivable being payable in U.S. dollars;    

the continued operation, viability and growth of Commercial Airplane revenues and successful execution of our backlog in this segment;    

the timing and effects of decisions to complete or launch a Commercial Airplane program;    

the effect of political and legal processes, changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. government or international government defense, including C-17 aircraft, and
space budgets on our revenues;    

the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;    

the continuation of long-term trends in passenger revenue yields in the airline industry;    

the effect of valuation decline of our aircraft;    

the impact of airline bankruptcies on our revenues or operating results;    

the continuation of historical costs for fleet support services;    

the receipt of cost sharing payments for research and development;    

the receipt of estimated award and incentive fees on U.S. government contracts;    

the future demand for commercial satellites and projections of future order flow;    

the potential for technical or quality issues on development programs, including the Airborne Early Warning   Control program and other fixed price development
programs, or in the commercial satellite industry to affect schedule and cost estimates or cause us to incur a material charge or experience a termination for default;    

the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation in which we are a party and other contingencies;    

returns on pension fund assets, impacts of future interest rate changes on pension obligations and healthcare cost inflation trends;    

the amounts and effects of underinsured operations including satellite launches;    

i   

Table of Contents  

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition or disposition activity and investment in any joint ventures/strategic alliances including Sea Launch and United Launch
Alliance, and indemnifications related thereto; and    

the expected cash expenditures and charges associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business.    
                This
report includes important information as to these factors in the  Business  section under the heading  Other Business Information  and in the  Risk Factors  and  Legal Proceedings  sections and in the Notes to
our consolidated financial statements included herein. Additional important information as to these factors is included in this report in the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.          
      
   ii   

Table of Contents  

Item 1. Business             The Boeing Company,
together with its subsidiaries (herein referred to as  Boeing , the  Company,   we ,  us ,  our ), is one of the world s major aerospace firms.            We are organized based on the products and services we offer. We operate in five principal segments:

Commercial Airplanes;            

The three segments that comprise our Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) business:            

Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems (PE MS),            

Network and Space Systems (N SS) and            

Support Systems            

Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC).               Our Other segment classification principally includes the activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology, an advanced research and development organization
focused on innovative technologies, improved processes and the creation of new products.             Commercial Airplanes Segment             The Commercial Airplanes
segment is involved in developing, producing and marketing commercial jet aircraft and providing related support services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide. We are a leading producer of commercial aircraft and offer a family
of commercial jetliners designed to meet a broad spectrum of passenger and cargo requirements of domestic and non-U.S. airlines. This family of commercial jet aircraft currently includes the 737 Next-Generation narrow-body model and the 747, 767,
777 and 787 wide-body models. The Commercial Airplanes segment also offers aviation services support, aircraft modifications, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice to commercial and government customers worldwide.   
         Integrated Defense Systems             IDS is principally involved in the research, development, production, modification and support of the following products and related
systems and services: military aircraft, including fighters, transports, tankers, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, and helicopters; missiles; space systems; missile defense systems; satellites and satellite launch vehicles; and
communications, information and battle management systems. IDS is committed to providing affordable, best-of-industry solutions and brings value to customers through its ability to solve the most complex problems utilizing expertise in large-scale
systems integration, knowledge of legacy platforms, and development of common network-enabled solutions across all customers  domains. IDS s primary customer is the United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) with additional revenues
being derived from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and international defense markets, civil markets, and commercial satellite markets. Approximately 84% of IDS 2007 revenues were from our U.S. DoD customer.             PE MS Segment:             This segment is engaged in the research, development, production, and
modification of precision engagement and mobility products and services. Included in this segment are programs such as AH-64 Apache, 737 Airborne Early Warning   Control (AEW C), C-17 Globemaster, C-40A Clipper, CH-47 Chinook, E-10A
Multi-sensor Command and Control Aircraft (MC2A), EA-18G Growler, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15 Strike Eagle, F-22 Raptor, Harpoon, Joint Direct Attack Munition, International KC-767 Advanced Tanker, P-8A Poseidon, Stand-off Land Attack
Missile-Expanded Response (SLAM-ER), Small Diameter Bomb, T-45 Training System, and V-22 Osprey.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

    N SS Segment:          
  This segment is engaged in the research, development, production, and modification of products and services to assist our customers in
transforming their operations through network integration, intelligence and surveillance systems, communications, architectures, and space exploration. Included in this segment are programs such as Airborne Laser, Family of Advanced Beyond
Line-of-Sight (FAB-T) Terminals, Future Combat Systems (FCS), SBInet, Future Rapid Effects System, Global Positioning System, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), International Space Station, Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) and Airborne,
Maritime/Fixed station, Satellite Systems, Space Payloads, and Space Shuttle.             Support Systems Segment:             This segment
is engaged in the operations, maintenance, training, upgrades, and logistics support functions for military platforms and operations. Included in this segment are program areas such as Integrated Logistics on platforms including C-17, F/A-18, and
AH-64; Maintenance, Modifications and Upgrades on platforms including A-10, AC-130, KC-135, and KC-10; Training Systems and Services on platforms including F-16, C-17, AH-64, and F-15; and International Support.             Boeing Capital Corporation Segment             In the commercial aircraft market, BCC facilitates, arranges, structures and provides
selective financing solutions for our Commercial Airplanes segment customers. In the space and defense markets, BCC arranges and structures financing solutions for our IDS segment government customers. BCC s portfolio consists of equipment
under operating leases, finance leases, notes and other receivables, investments and assets held for sale or re-lease.             Financial and Other Business Information             See the Summary of Business Segment Data and Note 22 for financial information, including revenues, net earnings and our backlog of firm contractual orders, for
each of the major business segments.             Intellectual Property             While we own numerous patents and have licenses for the use of patents owned by
others, which relate to our products and their manufacture. We do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any patents or termination of any patent license agreements. We have no trademarks, franchises or
concessions that are considered to be of material importance to the conduct of our business.             Non-U.S. Sales             See Note 22 for information regarding
non-U.S. sales.             Research and Development             Research and development expenditures involve experimentation, design, development and
related test activities for defense systems, new and derivative jet aircraft including both commercial and military, advance space and other company-sponsored product development. These expenditures are expensed as incurred including amounts
allocable as reimbursable overhead costs on U.S. government contracts.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

   Our total research and development expense amounted to $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.2 billion in 2007, 2006,
and 2005, respectively. This is net of research and development cost sharing payments from suppliers of $130 million, $160 million and $611 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. These cost sharing payments are related to our 787 program.
           Research and development costs also include bid and proposal efforts
related to government products and services and costs incurred in excess of amounts estimated to be recoverable under cost-sharing research and development agreements. Bid and proposal costs were $306 million, $227 million and $210 million in 2007,
2006, and 2005, respectively.            Research and development highlights for
each of the major business segments are discussed in more detail in Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition on pages 19-36.             Employees             Our workforce level at December 31, 2007 was approximately 159,300, including approximately 3,846 in Australia and 1,720 in Canada.         
  As of December 31, 2007, our principal collective bargaining agreements were with the following unions:         

Union  
      
  Percent of our Employees Represented  
      
  Status of the Agreements with the Union   
 
    The International Association of     Machinists and Aerospace     Workers (IAM)   
      
  19%  
      
    We have two major agreements; one expiring in     September and one in October of 2008.    

The Society of Professional     Engineering Employees in     Aerospace (SPEEA)   
      
  14%  
      
  We have three major agreements expiring in December of 2008.   

The United Automobile,     Aerospace and Agricultural     Implement Workers of America     (UAW)   
      
  3%  
      
  We have one major agreement expiring in October of 2009.   
           Competition            The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely
competitive. We face aggressive international competitors, including Airbus, who are intent on increasing their market share. We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost reduction efforts. We continue to leverage our extensive
customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world to provide a higher level of customer satisfaction and productivity.            IDS faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin,
Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and General Dynamics. Non-U.S. companies such as BAE Systems and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company continue to build a strategic presence in the U.S. market by strengthening their North American operations and
partnering with U.S. defense companies.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Matters              U.S. Government Contracts.  Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of our markets. We deal with numerous U.S. government agencies and entities,
including but not limited to all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, and the Department of Homeland Security. Similar government authorities exist in our international markets.            The U.S. government, and other governments, may terminate any of our government contracts at their convenience as well as for default
based on our failure to meet specified performance measurements. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for work completed and allowable termination or cancellation
costs. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, generally the U.S. government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and can require us to pay the difference between the original contract price and the cost
to re-procure the contract items, net of the work accepted from the original contract. The U.S. government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default.       
      Commercial Aircraft.  In the United States, our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with Federal Aviation Administration
regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. Internationally, similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational
approvals. These requirements are generally administered by the national aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the European Joint Aviation Authorities.             Environmental.  Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of
federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. We continually assess our compliance status and
management of environmental matters to ensure our operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.            Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. These costs often
are allowable costs under our contracts with the U.S. government. It is reasonably possible that continued environmental compliance could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if more stringent
clean-up standards are imposed, additional contamination is discovered and/or clean-up costs are higher than estimated.            A Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) has joint and several liability under existing U.S. environmental laws. Where we have been designated a PRP by the
Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency, we are potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at our facilities or former facilities or at third-party sites. If we were
required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the statutory framework would allow us to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. For additional information relating to environmental contingencies, see Note 13.             International.  Our international sales are subject to U.S. and non-U.S.
governmental regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investment, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. International sales are also subject to varying currency, political
and economic risks.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Raw Materials             We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials, parts and subassemblies from our suppliers and subcontractors. The most important raw materials
required for our aerospace products are aluminum (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions), titanium (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions) and composites (including carbon and boron). Although alternative sources generally exist for these raw
materials, qualification of the sources could take a year or more. Many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and non-U.S. companies.             Suppliers             We are dependent upon the ability of large numbers of suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance specifications, quality
standards and delivery schedules at anticipated costs. While we maintain an extensive qualification and performance surveillance system to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to meet
commitments could adversely affect production schedules and program/contract profitability, thereby jeopardizing our ability to fulfill commitments to our customers. We are also dependent on the availability of energy sources, such as electricity,
at affordable prices.             Other Information             Boeing was originally incorporated in the State of Washington in 1916 and
reincorporated in Delaware in 1934. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 N. Riverside, Chicago, Illinois 60606 and our telephone number is (312) 544-2000.            General information about us can be found at www.boeing.com. The information contained on or connected to our web site is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and
Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at
the SEC s public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Boeing.
            
  Item 1A. Risk Factors             An investment
in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future trends may differ materially from our past performance due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following:   
          We depend heavily upon commercial customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market, which are
subject to unique risks.               We derive a
significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of major commercial airlines, some of which have encountered financial difficulties.  We depend on a limited number of customers, including the major commercial airlines. We can make no
assurance that any customer will purchase additional products or services from us after our contract with the customer ends. Financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of any of the major commercial airlines could significantly reduce our
revenues and our opportunity to generate a profit. Several commercial airlines have filed for or recently emerged from bankruptcy.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

    Our ability to deliver aircraft on time depends on a variety of factors, which are subject to
unique risks.  Our ability to deliver jet aircraft on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials (such as aluminum, titanium, and composites), internal and
supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, performance of suppliers and subcontractors, and regulatory certification. The failure of any or all of these factors could result in significant
out-of-sequence work and disrupted process flows that result in significant inefficiencies and that adversely affect production schedules and program/contract profitability, the latter through possible customer and/or supplier claims or assertions.
In addition, the introduction of new commercial aircraft programs and major derivatives involves increased risks associated with meeting development, production and certification schedules.             We rely on market conditions to sell aircraft into the future.
 The worldwide market for commercial jet aircraft is predominantly driven by long-term trends in airline passenger traffic. The principal factors underlying long-term traffic growth are sustained economic growth and political stability, both in
developed and emerging countries. Demand for our commercial aircraft is further influenced by airline industry profitability, world trade policies, government-to-government relations, terrorism, disease outbreaks, environmental constraints imposed
upon aircraft operations, technological changes, price and other competitive factors.             Our commercial aircraft customers may request to cancel, modify or reschedule orders.  We generally make sales under purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling.
Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the airline industry could result in customer requests for rescheduling or cancellation of contractual orders. If there were such cancellations, modification or rescheduling, it
could significantly reduce our revenues.             Our
commercial aircraft production rates could change.  As a result of worldwide demand for new aircraft, we have received more than one thousand net orders per year during 2007, 2006 and 2005. There may be production rate changes in order to meet
the delivery schedules for existing and new airplane programs. This may lead to adding extra production lines, implementing infrastructure changes, seeking additional qualified and skilled employees, and obtaining other resources. Failure to
successfully implement any production rate changes could lead to missed delivery commitments, and depending on the length of delay in meeting delivery commitments, additional costs and customers rescheduling their deliveries or terminating their
aircraft on contract with us.              We depend heavily on U.S. government contracts,
which are subject to unique risks.              In 2007, 42% of our revenues
were derived from U.S. government contracts. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks some of which are beyond our control.             The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional
appropriations . Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if
appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a materially negative
impact on our operations.             The U.S. government may
modify, curtail or terminate our contracts.  The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination.
Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. government agencies . U.S. government
representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will
not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be
required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination
of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government.             Our business is subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations.  We are sometimes subject to certain U.S. government
inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
            Our U.S. government business is also subject to
specific procurement regulations and other requirements.  These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which
could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could
have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts.              We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns.              Many of our contracts in IDS and Commercial Airplanes are contracted on a fixed-price basis. Approximately 50% of IDS revenues are generated from fixed-price
contracts, and commercial jet aircraft are normally sold on a firm fixed-price basis with an indexed price escalation clause. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns.
If the initial estimates we use to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and performance.
If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our
estimated costs exceed our estimated price.            Fixed-price development work
inherently has more uncertainty than production contracts and, therefore, more variability in estimates of the cost to complete the work. Many of these development programs have very complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may
experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of which could result in a material charge. Some fixed-price development contracts include initial
production units in their scope of work. Successful performance of these contracts depends on our ability to meet production specifications and delivery rates. If we are unable to perform and deliver to contract requirements, our contract price
could be reduced through the incorporation of liquidated damages, termination of the contract for default, or other financially significant exposure. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to perform the work and the price we will
eventually be paid on fixed-price development programs. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates.
For example, in 2006 we recorded charges of $770 million on our AEW C program, delayed delivery of the first two aircraft and revised the delivery schedule for the remaining aircraft under this program. We may continue to experience  
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

technical quality issues requiring further delays in schedule or revisions to our cost estimates. Examples of other significant fixed-price development contracts
include KC-767 Tankers, commercial and military satellites, Vigilare and High Frequency Modernisation.              We enter into cost-type contracts which also carry risks.              Approximately 50% of IDS revenues are generated from cost-type contracting arrangements. Some of these are development programs which have complex design and technical challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award
or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues
arise. Programs whose contracts are primarily cost-type include GMD, FCS, P-8A Poseidon, Proprietary programs, Airborne Laser, JTRS, FAB-T, and the E/A-18G Growler.              We enter into contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments that subject us to risks.              Contracts in the commercial satellite industry include in-orbit incentive payments,
and government satellite contracts also may include in-orbit incentives. These in-orbit payments may be paid over time after final satellite acceptance or paid in full prior to final satellite acceptance. In both cases, the in-orbit incentive
is at risk if the satellite does not perform to specifications for up to 15 years after acceptance. The net present value of in-orbit incentive fees we ultimately expect to realize is recognized as revenue in the construction period.
If the satellite fails to meet contractual performance criteria, customers will not be obligated to continue making in-orbit payments and/or we may be required to provide refunds to the customer and incur significant charges.   
          We use estimates in accounting for many contracts and programs. Changes in our estimates could
adversely affect our future financial results.              Contract and
program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts and programs, the estimation of
total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract or program because costs also include expected increases in wages, materials prices
and allocated fixed costs. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of
award fees are also used in sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards.            Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program tooling costs and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged as cost of sales by program instead of by individual units or
contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts limited by the ability to make
reasonable dependable estimates. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the units can
reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling, and routine warranty costs for the total program. Several factors determine accounting quantity, including firm orders,
letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. Such estimates are reconsidered throughout the life of our programs. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates concerning the selection of the initial accounting
quantity or changes in market conditions, along with a failure to realize predicted costs, may adversely affect future financial performance.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially
different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial
performance. For additional information on our accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under  Management s Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Policies Contract Accounting/Program
Accounting  on pages 43-44 and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 53-54 of this Form 10-K.              Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future
periods.              Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted
by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using
actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension
or other postretirement income or expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and expected future medical inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan
assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to Other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement
plan accounting policies, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Policies Postretirement Plans  on pages 46-47 of this Form 10-K. Although GAAP expense and pension or other postretirement contributions
are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts
required under federal law Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and discretionary contributions to improve the plans  funded status.              Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, which may lead to work stoppages.         
     Approximately 58,197 of our employees are unionized, which represented approximately 38% of our employees at December 31, 2007. We experienced
work stoppages in 2005 when labor strikes halted commercial aircraft and IDS production and we may experience additional work stoppages in the future, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our relationships,
currently with 17 different U.S. labor organizations and 7 different non-U.S. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to meet the unions  requirements without impacting our financial condition. The unions may also limit our
flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Work stoppages and instability in our union relationships could negatively impact the timely production of our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues that
would adversely affect our results of operations.              Competition within our markets
may reduce our procurement of future contracts and sales.             The
markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop
the capability to manufacture products or provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of
these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
successfully against our current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenues and market share.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

     We derive a significant portion of our revenues from non-U.S. sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in other
countries.              In 2007, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for
approximately 40% of our revenues. We expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:

changes in regulatory requirements            

domestic and international government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements

fluctuations in international currency exchange rates            

delays in placing orders            

the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants            

the uncertainty of adequate and available transportation            

the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases          

uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees            

imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions            

the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries            

compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad            

economic and geopolitical developments and conditions               While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future.              The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an
adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.              We are defendants in a number of litigation matters. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our
operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse
affect on our financial position and results of operations.              A substantial
deterioration in the financial condition of the commercial airline industry as it relates to Boeing Capital Corporation may have an adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.              BCC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, has a substantial portion of its portfolio
concentrated among commercial airline customers. A material adverse effect in the airline industry could result in significant defaults by airline customers, repossessions of aircraft, airline bankruptcies, or restructurings. Bankruptcies or
restructurings of our current or potential customers could lead to reduced demand for leased aircraft and reduced aircraft lease rates and aircraft values. These events could have a negative effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial
position.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

     We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures.   
           As part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses and form joint
ventures/strategic alliances. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions will depend in part upon the integration of the acquired business, the performance of the acquired products, capabilities or technologies and the
management of strategic investments. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees
and indemnifications. Consolidations of joint ventures could also impact our results of operations or financial position. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is
no assurance that these transactions will be successful. Divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by
those divested businesses could affect our future financial results.              Our insurance
coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.              We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. While we maintain insurance for certain risks and, in some circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government, insurance cannot be
obtained to protect against all risks and liabilities. It is therefore possible that the amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs.              Our forward looking statements, projections and business assumptions may prove to be inaccurate,
resulting in lower than expected earnings.              The statements in
this Risk Factors section describe material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and
analysis in this report and in our Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking
statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.            Statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as
 believe,   project,   expect,   estimate,   assume,   intend,   anticipate,  and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by
federal securities law. While these forward-looking statements reflect our best estimates when made, the preceding risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections.            We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor
protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.            You should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of
predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. As noted above, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events,
circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, we may make forward-looking statements that involve the risk factors and other matters described in this
document as well as other risk factors subsequently identified.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments             Not Applicable.             
  Item 2. Properties             We occupied
approximately 88 million square feet of floor space on December 31, 2007 for manufacturing, warehousing, engineering, administration and other productive uses, of which approximately 96% was located in the United States.            The following table provides a summary of the floor space by business:         

Commercial leases from U.S. government landlord: 158 square feet (Included)      

Rent-free space furnished by U.S. government landlord: 1,121 square feet (Excluded)      

*  
     
    Other includes Boeing Capital Corporation, Engineering, Operations and Technology, Corporate Headquarters, and Boeing Shared Services Group.      
        Our businesses had major operations at the following locations:         

Commercial Airplanes   Greater Seattle, WA            

Integrated Defense Systems   Greater Los Angeles, CA; Greater Seattle, WA; Greater St. Louis, MO; Philadelphia, PA; San Antonio, TX; Huntsville, AL; Mesa, AZ;
Wichita, KS; Houston, TX; Greater Washington, DC            

Other   Chicago, IL; Greater Seattle, WA               Most runways and taxiways that we use are located on airport properties owned by others and are used jointly with others. Our rights to use such facilities are
provided for under long-term leases with municipal, county or other government authorities. In addition, the U.S. government furnishes us certain office space, installations and equipment at U.S. government bases for use in connection with various
contract activities.            We believe that our principal properties are
adequate for our present needs and, as supplemented by planned improvements and construction, expect them to remain adequate for the foreseeable future.             
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings             Currently,
we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. For a discussion of contingencies related to legal proceedings, see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is hereby incorporated by reference.            We possess a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, issued by
the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region (Regional Board), which sets limits on the permissible level of certain constituents in surface water discharged from various outfalls at our Santa Susana Field Laboratory
(SSFL) site in Simi Valley, California. Since June 2004, the Regional Board has amended this permit to impose increasingly stringent numeric limits. In late 2006, the California Water Resources Control Board (State Board) partially granted and
partially denied the  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

Company s appeal of these amendments, and remanded the permit to the Regional Board to correct certain errors. On January 17, 2007, we filed an action in Los
Angeles County Superior Court challenging the State Board s rulings that are adverse to the Company, including the determination to uphold the more stringent numeric limits in the permit, and that matter remains pending.            On November 1, 2007, the Regional Board responded to the remand from the State
Board by amending the permit, and issuing a cease and desist order incorporating some (but not all) relief that we had requested. On December 3, 2007, we filed an administrative appeal of certain portions of the Regional Board s
November 1st action, but asked that the State Board hold the appeal in abeyance as we seek to work cooperatively with the Regional Board to address continuing permit compliance issues.            During the period from January 2004 to the present, we have received five violation
notices from the Regional Board for discharging surface water exceeding certain of the permit limits. On August 27, 2007, we entered into an administrative settlement with the Regional Board under which we paid $235,595 in civil penalties and
$235,595 to fund Supplemental Environmental Projects, for a total cost of $0.471 million. This resolution addressed most but not all of the incidents cited in the violation notices, and additional administrative or other action is still possible.
           In November 2005, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney s office in Los Angeles seeking documents from 2001 onward pertaining to our NPDES permit compliance status under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA). We maintain that no criminal violations of the CWA have occurred and that the
incidents are being appropriately addressed by civil administrative actions undertaken by the Regional Board. We have produced the documents requested by the subpoena, and made our last submission in February 2007. No further action has been taken
by the U.S. Attorney s Office.             
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders             There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2007.        
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Executive Officers of the Registrant             Our executive officers as of February 1, 2008, are as follows:         

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    
 
  James F. Albaugh  
      
  57  
      
    Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, IDS since July 2002. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Boeing, President, Space and Communications Group from
September 1998 (named CEO of Space and Communications Group in March 2001). Prior thereto, President, Boeing Space Transportation from April 1998. Prior thereto, President of Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power from March 1997. Current director of TRW
Automotive Holdings, Inc.    

James A. Bell  
      
  59  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2004. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller from October 2000 to January 2004.
Prior thereto, Vice President of Contracts and Pricing for Boeing Space Communications from January 1997 to October 2000. Current director of The Dow Chemical Company.    

Scott E. Carson  
      
  61  
      
    Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes since September 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President of Sales at Commercial
Airplanes. Prior thereto, President of Connexion by Boeing. Prior thereto, Chief Financial Officer of Commercial Airplanes. Prior thereto, Executive Vice President of Business Resources for the former Boeing Information, Space and Defense Systems.

Michael J. Cave   
      
  47  
      
    Senior Vice President of Business Development and Strategy since November 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President of Business Strategy   Marketing for Boeing Commercial Airplanes,
and prior thereto Vice President/General Manager of Airplane Programs for Commercial Airplanes and prior thereto Senior Vice President for Commercial Aviation Services. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Commercial
Airplanes from November 2000 through January 2003. Prior thereto, Vice President   Finance for Commercial Aviation Services, Vice President   Controller for Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group, and Vice President   Finance for the
twin-aisle programs. Prior to joining Commercial Airplanes, Vice President   Finance for Boeing Information, Space   Defense Systems.    

Wanda K. Denson-Low  
      
  51  
      
    Senior Vice President, Office of Internal Governance since May 2007. Prior thereto, vice president and assistant general counsel of IDS, August 2003 to May 2007. Prior thereto, vice
president of human resources for IDS, March 2002 to August 2003, and prior thereto Chief Counsel, S C Legal, August 2001 to March 2002, and Vice President, General Counsel, Hughes Space and Communications, January 1998 to August 2001. Vice
President, Assistant General Counsel, Hughes Electronics, 1992 to January 1998. Wanda Denson-Low joined the Company in 1984.    
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    

Thomas J. Downey  
      
  43  
      
    Senior Vice President, Communications since January 1, 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President, Corporate Communications, April 2006 to December 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President,
Commercial Airplanes Communications, May 2002 to April 2006. Prior thereto, Corporate Vice President, Internal and Executive Communications, 1999 to April 2002. Prior thereto, General Manager of Communications and Community Relations for Military
Aircraft and Missile Systems unit and director of Communications for Douglas Aircraft Company. Mr. Downey joined the Company in 1986.    

Shepard W. Hill  
      
  55  
      
    Senior Vice President, President, Boeing International since November 2007. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Business Development and Strategy, Vice President, Business
Development, at IDS, and prior thereto, he was Vice President, Boeing Space and Communications Government Relations and was vice president, Space Systems, Integrated Space and Defense Systems business unit. Mr. Hill joined Boeing when the Company
acquired Rockwell s Aerospace and Defense business in 1996. At that time, Hill was Rockwell s Vice President, Aerospace Government Affairs and Marketing.    

Tod R. Hullin   
      
    64   
      
    Senior Vice President, Public Policy since May 2006. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Communications since December 2003. Prior thereto, Executive Vice President, Global Public
Policy and North American Communications, Vivendi Universal from December 2000 to March 2002. Prior thereto, Senior Global Communications Officer for the Seagram Company Ltd. from October 1998 to December 2000 and Time Warner from February 1991 to
March 1997.    

James M. Jamieson  
      
  59  
      
    Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Boeing Commercial Airplanes since September 2006. Prior thereto, Chief Technology Officer December 2003 and prior thereto, Senior
Vice President, Airplane Programs for Boeing Commercial Airplanes from February 2000 to December 2003. Prior thereto, Executive Vice President of Single Aisle Airplane Programs from October 1998 to February 2000.    

J. Michael Luttig   
      
  53  
      
    Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since May 2006. Prior thereto, served on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from October 1991 to May
2006. Prior thereto, Assistant Attorney General of the United States from October 1990 to October 1991, and Counselor to the Attorney General at the Department of Justice from August 1990 to October 1991. Prior thereto, Principal Deputy Assistant
Attorney General at the Department of Justice from March 1989 to October 1990. Prior thereto, Luttig was associated with Davis Polk and Wardwell from September 1985 to March 1989. Prior thereto, special assistant to the Chief Justice of the United
States from September 1984 to September 1985. Prior thereto, law clerk to the Honorable Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States from July 1983 until August 1984 and law clerk to then-Judge Antonin Scalia of the United States Court of
Appeals from August 1982 to July 1983. Prior thereto, special assistant to The White House Counsel and then as assistant counsel from March 1981 to August 1982. Prior thereto, Luttig worked at the Supreme Court of the United States in the Office of
Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice from September 1976 to September 1978.    
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    

W. James McNerney, Jr.  
      
  58  
      
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Boeing Company. Mr. McNerney has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Boeing Company since July 1, 2005.
Previously, he served four and a half years as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company (diversified technology). Beginning in 1982, he served in management positions at General Electric Company, his most recent being President and Chief
Executive Officer of GE Aircraft Engines from 1997 until 2000. Mr. McNerney is on the board of the following public company in addition to The Boeing Company: The Procter   Gamble Company. He is also a member of various business and educational
organizations.    

Richard D. Stephens  
      
  55  
      
    Senior Vice President Human Resources and Administration since September 2005. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Internal Services and prior thereto, he was President
of Shared Services Group. Prior thereto, he was Vice President and General Manager, Integrated Defense Systems Homeland Security and Services, from July 2002 to December 2003. Mr. Stephens has previously led a number of Boeing businesses, including
Space and Communications Services, Reusable Space Systems, Naval Systems and Tactical Systems.    

John J. Tracy  
      
  53  
      
    Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of Engineering, Operations and Technology since October 1, 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President of Engineering and Mission
Assurance for IDS, February 2004 to September 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President of Structural Technologies, Prototyping, and Quality for Phantom Works, September 2001 to January 2004. Prior thereto, General Manager of Engineering for Military
Aircraft and Missiles September 2000 to August 2001. Dr. Tracy joined the Company in 1981.    
                 
   16   

Table of Contents  

    PART II              
  Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities             The principal market for our common stock is the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is also listed on the Amsterdam, Brussels, London, Swiss and Tokyo
Exchanges as well as various regional stock exchanges in the United States. The number of holders of common stock as of February 8, 2008, was approximately 159,913. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from
the table captioned  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited ) on page 108.             Issuer
Purchases Of Equity Securities             The following table provides
information about purchases we made during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 of equity securities that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:             (Dollars in millions except per share data)          

(1)       
     
     We repurchased an aggregate of 9,387,168 shares of our common stock in the open market pursuant to
our repurchase programs. On August 28, 2006 our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of $3 billion of common stock (the 2006 Program). On October 29, 2007, the Board approved a new repurchase plan (the 2007 Program) for up to $7
billion of common stock that commenced following the completion of the 2006 Program. Unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution, the 2007 Program will expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase. Outside of the programs, we
purchased an aggregate of 764 shares in swap transactions.             
   17   

Table of Contents  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data              Five-Year Summary
(Unaudited)          

Cash  
     
    dividends have been paid on common stock every year since 1942.      

(a)  
     
    In the first quarter of 2006, Commercial Airplanes changed its accounting policy for concessions received from vendors. The years 2005 through 2003 were retroactively
adjusted for comparative purposes.      

(b)  
     
    Effective January 1, 2007, the B-1 bomber program (formerly included in PE MS) and certain Boeing Australia Limited programs (formerly included in N SS) are
included in Support Systems. The years 2006 through 2003 were restated for comparative purposes.      

(c)  
     
    In 2006, we realigned IDS into three capabilities-driven businesses: PE MS, N SS, and Support Systems. As part of the realignment, certain advanced systems and
research and development activities previously included in the Other segment transferred to the new IDS segments. The years 2005 through 2002 were restated for comparative purposes.      

(d)  
     
    During 2004, BCC sold substantially all of the assets related to its Commercial Financial Services business. Thus, the Commercial Financial Services business is reflected
as discontinued operations. The year 2003 was restated for comparative purposes.      

(e)  
     
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  was adopted in 2006
and reduced shareholders  equity by $8.2 billion. Retrospective application is not permitted.      

(f)  
     
    Computation represents actual shares outstanding as of December 31, and excludes treasury shares and the outstanding shares held by the ShareValue Trust.
           
   18   

Table of Contents  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations              Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition              Overview             We are a global market leader in design, development, manufacture, sale and support of commercial jetliners, military aircraft, satellites, missile defense, human space flight and launch systems and services. We are one of the
two major manufacturers of 100+ seat airplanes for the worldwide commercial airline industry and the second-largest defense contractor in the U.S. While our principal operations are in the U.S., we rely extensively on a network of partners, key
suppliers and subcontractors located around the world.            Our business
strategy is centered on successful execution in healthy core businesses   Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems (IDS)   supplemented and supported by Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC). Taken together, these core businesses
generate substantial earnings and cash flow that permit us to invest in new products and services that open new frontiers in aerospace. We focus on producing the airplanes the market demands and we price our products to provide a fair return for our
shareholders while continuing to find new ways to improve efficiency and quality. IDS integrates its resources in defense, intelligence, communications and space to deliver capability-driven solutions to its customers at reduced costs. Our strategy
is to leverage our core businesses to capture key next-generation programs while expanding our presence in adjacent and international markets, underscored by an intense focus on growth and productivity. Our strategy also benefits as commercial and
defense markets often offset each others  cyclicality. BCC delivers value through supporting our business units and managing overall financing exposure.           In 2007, our revenues grew by 8%. Earnings from operations increased 93%. We continued to invest in key growth programs as Research and Development expense grew by
18% to $3.9 billion, reflecting increased spending on the 787 and 747-8 programs and lower cost sharing payments from suppliers. We generated operating cash flow of $9.6 billion driven by operating and working capital performance. We reduced debt by
$1.3 billion and repurchased 29 million common shares. Our contractual backlog grew 37% to $297 billion, driven by 46% growth at Commercial Airplanes while our total backlog grew 31% to $327 billion.            We expect continued growth in Commercial Airplane revenues and deliveries as we execute
our record backlog and respond to global demand by ramping up commercial aircraft production. We expect IDS revenue to remain relatively flat in 2008 compared with 2007 and anticipate that the U.S. Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) budget growth will
begin to moderate over the next several years. We are focused on improving financial performance through a combination of productivity and customer-focused growth.             Consolidated Results of Operations              Revenues             (Dollars in millions)         
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

   Revenues in 2007 grew by $4,857 million, primarily due to the growth at Commercial Airplanes. Commercial Airplanes
revenues increased by $4,921 million, primarily due to higher new airplane deliveries and increased commercial aviation support activities. IDS revenues decreased by $359 million, primarily due to lower revenues in Network and Space Systems
(N SS) resulting from the formation of the United Launch Alliance (ULA) joint venture in 2006 and lower revenues in Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems (PE MS), offset by growth in Support Systems. BCC revenues decreased by $210
million primarily due to a decrease in the customer financing portfolio. Accounting differences/eliminations changed by $524 million primarily due to fewer Commercial Airplanes intercompany deliveries when compared with 2006.            Higher consolidated revenues in 2006 were primarily due to higher new commercial
aircraft deliveries. IDS revenues were up moderately in 2006 as growth in PE MS and Support Systems was partially offset by lower volume in N SS. BCC revenues increased in 2006 primarily due to higher investment income and higher net gain on
disposal of assets. Other segment revenues decreased in 2006 as a result of the buyout of several operating lease aircraft in the amount of $369 million in 2005. Accounting differences/eliminations decreased revenues due to higher Commercial
Airplanes intercompany deliveries in 2006.             Earnings from Operations    
        The following table summarizes our earnings from operations:            (Dollars in millions)       
  
          Operating earnings in 2007
improved by $2,816 million compared with 2006. The increase is partly due to the $571 million global settlement with U.S. Department of Justice (U.S. DoJ) that occurred in the second quarter of 2006. Commercial Airplanes earnings increased by
$851 million compared with the same period in 2006, primarily due to higher new airplane deliveries, commercial aviation support activities and improved cost performance offset by increased research and development expense. Commercial
Airplanes  research and development expense increased by $572 million to $2,962 million compared with the same period 2006, primarily due to spending on the 787 and 747-8 programs. IDS earnings increased by $408 million compared with 2006. The
increase is primarily due to 2006 charges of $770 million in the PE MS segment related to Airborne Early Warning   Control (AEW C), partially offset by lower 2007 earnings on several programs in the PE MS and N SS segments.
BCC operating earnings decreased $57 million reflecting lower revenues partially offset by a recovery of losses and lower expenses. Other segment earnings improved by $495 million primarily due to the absence of losses related to Connexion by
Boeing, which included a charge of $320 million to exit this business in 2006. Lower unallocated expense in 2007 contributed $548 million to the 2007 earnings improvement.       
     Operating earnings increased in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily driven by improved earnings at Commercial Airplanes resulting from higher revenue
from new aircraft deliveries, increased earnings from commercial aviation support business and improved cost performance. Lower unallocated expense in 2006 also contributed to the 2006 earnings increase. This was partially offset by a $571 million
charge for  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

global settlement with U.S. DoJ, lower IDS earnings reflecting a $569 million net gain on the sale of our Rocketdyne business in 2005 and $770 million of charges on
the AEW C development program in 2006 partially offset by improved margins on other programs and a $320 million charge related to the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business recorded in Other segment.           The most significant items included in Unallocated expense are shown in the following
table:            (Dollars in millions)         
          We recorded net periodic benefit
cost related to pensions and other postretirement benefits of $1,773 million, $1,663 million and $1,852 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Not all net periodic benefit cost is recognized in earnings in the period incurred because it is
allocated to production as product costs and a portion remains in inventory at the end of the reporting period. Accordingly, earnings from operations included $1,730 million, $1,227 million and $1,893 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. A
portion of pension and other postretirement expense is recorded in the business segments and the remainder is included in unallocated pension and other postretirement expense.           Unallocated pension and other postretirement expense represents the difference between costs recognized under GAAP in the consolidated
financial statements and federal cost accounting standards required to be utilized by our business segments for U.S. government contracting purposes.            Pension and other postretirement expense increased during 2007 when compared with 2006 primarily due to increased overall pension costs recognized in inventory as
of December 31, 2006, which are subsequently expensed in cost of sales in 2007. Pension and other postretirement expense decreased in 2006 compared with 2005 mainly due to an absence of net settlement and curtailment charges partially offset by
an increase in the amount of actuarial loss that was amortized.            The
reduction in Share-based plans expense is primarily due to lower Performance Shares outstanding during 2007 and higher expense acceleration during 2006, resulting from 12 payouts compared with six payouts in 2007. The decrease in 2006 Share-based
plans expense is primarily due to the increase in our stock price during 2005 which resulted in additional compensation expense due to an increase in the number of performance shares meeting the price growth targets and being converted to common
stock. The year over year changes in deferred compensation expense are primarily driven by changes in our stock price. Other expense decreased in 2007 partly due to reduced intercompany profit elimination as a result of fewer intercompany deliveries
during 2007 compared with 2006.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    Other Earnings Items             (Dollars in millions)         
          Other income, which primarily
consists of interest income, was higher in 2007 compared with 2006 as a result of increases in average principal balances and higher average rates of return on cash and investments. Other income was higher in 2006 compared with 2005 as a result of
increases in average principal balances and higher average rates of return, partially offset by lower interest income compared with 2005 related to federal income tax settlements for prior years.           Interest and debt expense decreased in 2007 and in 2006, primarily due to debt
repayments.            The effective income tax rate of 33.7% for 2007 differed
from the 2006 effective income tax rate of 30.9% primarily due to Foreign Sales Corporation and Extraterritorial Income exclusion tax benefits that existed in 2006, but did not recur in 2007. This was partially offset by the non-deduction in 2006 of
the global settlement with the U.S. DoJ and other income tax provision adjustments. The 2007 tax rate of 33.7% included enhanced Research and Development credits that exceeded the credits in 2006. The effective income tax rate of 30.9% for 2006
differed from the 2005 effective income tax rate of 9.1% primarily due to the favorable 2005 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service and the non-deduction in 2006 of the global settlement with the U.S. DoJ. For additional discussion related to
Income Taxes see Note 4.            Backlog            Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced orders for
which definitive contracts have not been executed, and unobligated U.S. and non-U.S. government contract funding. Contractual backlog increased by $80,397 million in 2007 compared to 2006 as a result of increases at Commercial Airplanes of $80,900
million, which were due to new orders in excess of deliveries for all programs offset by decreases at IDS of $503 million.            Unobligated backlog includes U.S. and non-U.S. government definitive contracts for which funding has not been authorized. Funding that is subsequently received is
moved to contractual backlog. The decrease in IDS unobligated backlog of $3,502 million during 2007 compared with 2006 is primarily due to funding released from existing contracts on Future Combat Systems (FCS), Proprietary, C-17, P8-A and F-18,
partially offset by increases in the F-22 program and Support Systems.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition              Commercial Airplanes              Business Environment and Trends             Airline Industry Environment  The fundamental drivers of air travel growth are a combination of economic growth and the increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization and
improved airline services driven by liberalization of air traffic rights between countries. Air traffic growth continues to exceed its long-term trend due to strong performance of these key drivers. Global economic growth, the primary driver of air
traffic growth, remained above long-term trend for the fourth straight year in 2007. The world economy has grown at an average 3.8% annual rate since 2004 compared to the long-term trend rate of 3.1%. The increasingly diversified world economy is
forecast to continue above-trend growth through the end of the decade although there is increased uncertainty in the near-term outlook due to a slowdown in the United States economy.            Increasingly liberalized and competitive air travel markets are also supporting strong traffic growth. Many bilateral air service
agreements governing air traffic rights between countries are liberalizing air travel around the world particularly in high growth markets such as China and India which have signed multiple new agreements over the last several years. In addition,
open skies agreements, in which all traffic rights restrictions are eliminated, continue to emerge with United States   European Union open skies negotiations being the most prominent recent example. Airline ownership is also becoming more
commercially driven   governments are reducing ownership and control stakes, moving away from national carriers. All of these facets of liberalization are increasing competition between airlines and further stimulating demand for air travel. In
this increasingly liberalized environment, airlines are offering improved service levels increasing flight frequency and airport pairs served by 5% per year since 2004.            The combination of these two fundamental drivers has led to a 9% annual average increase in the number of passengers since 2003. In
addition, high fuel prices are spurring strong demand to replace older, less fuel efficient airplanes. Together, these two factors have led to strong demand for new aircraft   over 7,000 orders for large commercial jet aircraft over the last
four years, increasing industry backlog levels to seven years of deliveries at current production rates.            Fuel prices are also playing a key role in increasing the current demand for new aircraft. Strong economic growth has also led to sustained high oil and fuel prices. Between 2003 and 2007, jet fuel expense
grew from 15 percent to more than 30 percent of airline operating costs. Airlines are responding by improving the fuel efficiency of their aircraft operations and reducing cost in many other areas. They are implementing more efficient (internet
based) distribution systems, reducing commission payments, and drawing on their employees for participation in labor cost reduction. These initiatives, combined with strong demand, are enabling industry-wide profitability despite high fuel prices.
Worldwide airlines achieved a $5.6 billion net profit in 2007 and are forecast to earn $5.0 billion in 2008.            Looking forward, our 20-year forecast is for a long-term average growth rate of 5% per year for passenger traffic, and 6% per year for cargo traffic based on projected average annual worldwide
real economic growth rate of 3%. Based on long-term global economic growth projections, and factoring in increased utilization of the worldwide airplane fleet and requirements to replace older airplanes, we project a $2.8 trillion market for 28,600
new airplanes over the next 20 years.           The industry remains vulnerable to
near-term exogenous developments including disease outbreaks (such as avian flu), terrorism, global economic cycles, increased global environmental regulations and fuel prices. Fuel prices are forecast to remain elevated and volatile in the
near-term due to strong demand driven by economic growth and historically low surplus capacity to cushion against supply shocks.        
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Industry Competitiveness  The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely
competitive. We expect the existing long-term downward trend in passenger revenue yields worldwide (measured in real terms) to continue into the foreseeable future. Market liberalization in Europe and Asia has continued to enable low-cost airlines
to gain market share. These airlines have increased the downward pressure on airfares. This results in continued cost pressures for all airlines and price pressure on our products. Major productivity gains are essential to ensure a favorable market
position at acceptable profit margins.           Continued access to global markets
remains vital to our ability to fully realize our sales potential and long-term investment returns. Approximately two-thirds of Commercial Airplanes  sales and contractual backlog are directly from customers based outside the United States.
           We face aggressive international competitors who are intent on
increasing their market share. They offer competitive products and have access to most of the same customers and suppliers. Airbus has historically invested heavily to create a family of products to compete with ours. Regional jet makers Embraer and
Bombardier, coming from the less than 100-seat commercial jet market, continue to develop larger and more capable airplanes. Additionally, other competitors from Russia, China, and Japan are likely to enter the 70 to 130 seat aircraft market over
the next few years. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on pricing and other competitive factors.           Worldwide, airplane sales are generally conducted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuating exchange rates affect the profit potential of our major competitors, all of whom have
significant costs in other currencies. A decline of the U.S. dollar relative to their local currencies as experienced in 2007 puts pressure on competitors  revenues and profits. Competitors often respond by aggressively reducing costs and
increasing productivity, thereby improving their longer-term competitive posture. Airbus has recently announced such initiatives targeting a two-year reduction in its development cycle and a significant increase in overall productivity by 2010. If
the U.S. dollar strengthens, Airbus can use the extra efficiency to develop new products and gain market share.           We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost-reduction efforts. We continue to leverage our extensive customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training,
maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world. This enables us to provide a higher level of customer satisfaction and productivity. These efforts enhance our ability to pursue pricing strategies that enable us to price
competitively and maintain satisfactory margins.             Operating Results          
           Revenues  The increase in
revenue of $4,921 million in 2007 from 2006 was primarily attributable to higher new airplane deliveries, including model mix changes, of $3,369 million, increased commercial aviation support business of $1,432 million and $120 million primarily
attributable to revenue from aircraft trading.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   The increase in revenue of $7,100 million in 2006 from 2005 was primarily attributable to higher new airplane
deliveries, including model mix changes, of $6,820 million, increased commercial aviation support business of $873 million offset by $593 million primarily attributable to lower revenue from aircraft trading. In 2005 we delivered 29 fewer than
expected airplanes due to the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) strike during the month of September 2005. This resulted in approximately $2,000 million lower revenue than anticipated for 2005.            Commercial jet aircraft deliveries as of December 31, including deliveries under
operating lease, which are identified by parentheses, were as follows:         
       
           Earnings from Operations  The $851 million increase in earnings from operations in 2007 over the comparable period of 2006 was primarily attributable to earnings of $950 million on increased new aircraft deliveries and $304 million in
increased earnings primarily attributable to commercial aviation support business. In addition cost performance improved by $169 million. These were offset by an increase in research and development costs of $572 million.              The $1,302 million increase in earnings from operations in 2006 over the comparable
period of 2005 was primarily attributable to earnings of $1,781 million on increased new aircraft deliveries and $315 million in increased earnings primarily attributable to commercial aviation support business. In addition cost performance improved
by $226 million. Such items were offset by increased research and development costs of $1,088 million. In 2005 we had a loss on the sale of Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma operations of $68 million. The IAM strike resulted in lower
operating earnings in 2005 due to 29 fewer than expected airplane deliveries.            Backlog  The backlog increase in 2007 related to orders in excess of deliveries for all programs, while the increase in 2006 related to orders in excess of deliveries for 737NG, 747 and 787.             Accounting Quantity  The accounting quantity is our estimate of the quantity of
airplanes that will be produced for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. Its determination is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs of these contracts. It is a key determinant of gross
margins we recognize on sales of individual airplanes throughout a program s life. Estimation of each program s accounting quantity takes into account several factors that are indicative of the demand for that program, including firm
orders, letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. We review our program accounting quantities quarterly.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

   Commercial aircraft production costs include a significant amount of infrastructure costs, a portion of which do
not vary with production rates. As the amount of time needed to produce the accounting quantity decreases, the average cost of the accounting quantity also decreases as these infrastructure costs are included in the total cost estimates, thus
increasing the gross margin and related earnings provided other factors do not change.            The accounting quantity for each program may include units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract, and units anticipated to be under contract in the reasonable future (anticipated orders). In developing
total program estimates all of these items within the accounting quantity must be considered. The table below provides details as of December 31:         

*  
     
    The accounting quantity for the 787 program will be determined in the year of first airplane delivery, targeted for 2009.     

1       
     
     Firm orders represent new aircraft purchase agreements where the customers  rights to cancel
without penalty have expired. Typically customer rights to cancel without penalty include the customer receiving approval from its Board of Directors, shareholders, government and completing financing arrangements. All such cancellation rights must
be satisfied or expired prior to recording a firm order even if satisfying such conditions are highly certain. Firm orders exclude option aircraft and aircraft with cancellation rights.       

2       
     
     Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries plus
undelivered firm orders.                 737 Next-Generation
 The accounting quantity for the 737 Next-Generation program increased by 600 units during 2007 due to the program s normal progression of obtaining additional orders and delivering aircraft.             747 Program  The accounting quantity for the 747 program increased by 25 units
during 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007 we completed firm configuration of the 747-8 Intercontinental airplane and during 2006 we completed firm configuration of the 747-8 Freighter. While there are always risks to development, production and
certification schedules in the introduction of a new commercial derivative airplane, deliveries of the first 747-8 Freighter and Intercontinental airplane are targeted for late 2009 and late 2010.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    767 Program  The accounting quantity for the 767 program increased by 13 units during 2007.             777 Program  The accounting quantity for the 777 program increased by 50 units
during 2007 as a result of the program s normal progression of obtaining additional orders and delivering aircraft. Firm configuration of the 777 Freighter was completed during 2006. Deliveries of the first 777 Freighter are targeted for
late 2008.             787 Program  We are in the very critical stages of
final assembly and planning for flight test, and the risks that are always inherent in these latter stages of airplane production still remain. We continue to address challenges associated with assembly of the first airplanes, including start-up
issues in our factory, management of our extended global supply chain, completion and integration of traveled work and reconciliation of the airplane s configuration with supplier and partner engineering. In January 2008 we announced that first
flight of the 787 has been moved from the end of the first quarter of 2008 to around the end of the second quarter of 2008 to provide additional time to complete assembly of the first airplane. Deliveries are now expected to begin in early 2009,
rather than late 2008. We continue working with our customers and suppliers to assess the specific impacts of the schedule change on the flight test program and entry into service.             Fleet support  We provide the operators of our commercial airplanes with assistance and services to facilitate efficient and
safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as commercial aviation support, these activities and services begin prior to aircraft delivery and continue throughout the operational life of the aircraft. They include flight and maintenance training,
field service support costs, engineering services and technical data and documents. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred and have been historically less than 1.5% of total consolidated costs of products and services. This level of
expenditures is anticipated to continue in the upcoming years. These costs do not vary significantly with current production rates.             Research and development  The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go-ahead and certification/initial delivery for major Commercial Airplanes
derivatives and programs.           

            Our Research and development expense
increased $572 million and $1,088 million in 2007 and 2006. Research and development expense is net of development cost sharing payments received from suppliers. The increase in 2007 was due to higher spending of $542 million, primarily on 787 and
747-8, and $30 million of lower supplier development cost sharing payments. We anticipate a decrease in research and development spending for 2008 primarily due to reduced 787 product development activities.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Integrated Defense Systems             Business Environment and Trends            IDS consists of three capabilities-driven businesses: Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems (PE MS), Network and Space Systems (N SS), and Support Systems.            Defense Environment Overview  The U.S. is faced with continuous force deployments
overseas, stability operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and uncertainties about near-peer adversary states with growing sophistication and military means. At the same time, our defense department faces the simultaneous requirements to recapitalize
important defense capabilities and to transform the force to take advantage of available technologies to meet the changing national security environment as outlined in the latest Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). All of this must be carried out
against a backdrop of significant Federal budget deficits and bipartisan objectives to reduce and ultimately eliminate annual deficit spending as well as the upcoming 2008 Presidential elections. We anticipate that the national security environment
will remain challenging for at least the next decade.           Because U.S. DoD
spending was about half of worldwide defense spending and represented approximately 84% of IDS revenue in 2007, the trends and drivers associated with the U.S. DoD budget are critical. The U.S. DoD budget has grown substantially over the past
decade, particularly after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Although the growth rate had moderated in recent years, the 2009 submittal equates to a 7.5% increase over 2008. The President s request for fiscal year 2009 is $515
billion, excluding the additional initial request of $70 billion to continue the fight in the Global War on Terror (GWOT). The Procurement account continues to see growth with a request of $104 billion, a 5% increase over 2008, while the Research,
Development, Test   Evaluation account increased modestly to $80 billion, a 4% increase from the 2008 level. (All projections and percentage increases are made without taking inflation into account and without accounting for Supplemental
funding.)            Over the past years, emergency supplemental requests have been
used to cover the on-going costs of the GWOT. In addition to the fiscal year 2008 discretionary budget request, the President also submitted supplemental requests totaling $189 billion to cover operations in the GWOT. It is anticipated that
additional supplemental requests for 2009 will exceed $100 billion, including the $70 billion initially requested, and that the trend to use supplemental requests to fund the GWOT will continue.            Even though we continue to see modest growth in the U.S. DoD budget, it is unlikely
that the U.S. DoD will be able to fully fund the hardware programs already in development as well as new initiatives in order to address the capability gaps identified in the latest QDR. This imbalance between future costs of hardware programs and
expected funding levels is not uncommon in the U.S. DoD and is routinely managed by internally adjusting priorities and schedules, restructuring programs, and lengthening production runs to meet the constraints of available funding and occasionally
by cancellation of programs. We expect the U.S. DoD will respond to future budget constraints by focusing on affordability strategies that emphasize jointness and network-enabled operations. These strategies will be enabled through persistent
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, long-range strike, special operations, unmanned systems, precision guided kinetic and non-kinetic weapons as well as continued privatization of logistics and support activities to improve overall
effectiveness while maintaining control over costs.           Consolidation of
contractor-provided U.S. government launch capabilities was completed with the formation of the ULA joint venture in 2006. This consolidation was driven by the limited schedule of government launches as well as the downturn in the commercial launch
market. Launch contractors had built business cases around the government market being supplemented by a robust commercial market, but as the commercial market declined these business cases were re-evaluated. The U.S. government has an assured
access to space policy which requires that two separate vehicles be available for use. The ULA joint venture is intended to provide this assurance.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    Civil Space Transportation and Exploration Environment  NASA has had stable but very little growth in their
funding in this decade. NASA s fiscal year 2007 appropriation of $16.6 billion was approximately equal to the fiscal year 2006 funding level. NASA s budget remains focused on needed funds for Space Shuttle Operations, International Space
Station, and new initiatives associated with the Vision for Space Exploration. We anticipate funding levels to remain in the $17-$18 billion range in the near future. NASA is continuing to pursue elements of the Vision for Space Exploration, which
will provide additional opportunities.             Commercial Satellite
Environment  The commercial satellite market has strengthened since the downturn earlier in the decade and is expected to stabilize with replacement demand through the end of the decade. The market remains extremely competitive with overcapacity
across the overall industry and strong pressure on pricing. We will continue to pursue profitable commercial satellite opportunities where the customer values our technical expertise and unique solutions.             Integrated Defense Systems Operating Results              IDS Realignment        
     Effective January 1, 2007, the B-1 bomber program (formerly included in PE MS) and certain Boeing Australia Limited programs (formerly
included in N SS) are included in Support Systems. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment. See Note 22.             Operating Results          
          Since our operating cycle is
long-term and involves many different types of development and production contracts with varying delivery and milestone schedules, the operating results of a particular year, or year-to-year comparisons of revenues and earnings, may not be
indicative of future operating results. In addition, depending on the customer and their funding sources, our orders might be structured as annual follow-on contracts, or as one large multi-year order or long-term award. As a result,
period-to-period comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of future workloads. The following discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context.            Revenues  IDS revenues decreased 1% in 2007 primarily due the exclusion of the government Delta volume from N SS revenues,
now a revenue component for our joint venture ULA. Decreased revenue from this exclusion and lower revenues in the PE MS segment were partially offset by increased volume in other N SS programs and growth in the Support Systems segment. IDS
revenues increased 4% in 2006 as growth in PE MS and Support Systems was partially offset by lower volume in N SS.             Operating Earnings  IDS operating earnings increased by $408 million in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to $770 million of charges on the AEW C
development program in 2006. The 2007 increase was partially offset by lower earnings in the PE MS and N SS segments. Operating earnings  
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

decreased by $887 million in 2006 compared with 2005 reflecting a $569 million net gain on the sale of Rocketdyne in 2005 and $770 million of charges on the AEW C
development program in 2006 partially offset by improved margins on other programs.             Backlog  Total backlog is comprised of contractual backlog, which represents work we are on contract to perform for which we have received funding, and unobligated backlog, which represents work we are on contract to
perform for which funding has not yet been authorized and appropriated. IDS total backlog decreased 5% in 2007, from $75,715 million to $71,710 million, primarily due to current year deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior
years with the largest decreases in FCS, C-17, and P-8A programs.            For further details on
the changes between periods, refer to the discussions of the individual segments below.            Additional Considerations             Our business includes a
variety of development programs which have complex design and technical challenges. Many of these programs have cost-type contracting arrangements. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program
cancellation if milestones and technical progress are not accomplished. Examples of these programs include Airborne Laser, E/A-18G, Family of Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals (JTRS), FCS, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), Joint Tactical Radio
System, P-8A and Proprietary programs.            Some of our development programs
are contracted on a fixed-price basis. Many of these programs have highly complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to perform the work or
reduce our estimated price, either of which could result in a material charge. These programs are ongoing, and while we believe the cost and fee estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of these
programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be missed, which could trigger termination-for-default provisions, the loss of satellite in-orbit incentive payments, or other
financially significant exposure. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated costs exceed our estimated contract revenues. Examples of these programs include AEW C, international KC-767 Tanker, commercial and military
satellites, SBInet, Vigilare and High Frequency Modernisation.            Precision Engagement
and Mobility Systems Operating Results          
           Revenues  PE MS
revenues decreased 3% in 2007 compared with an increase of 6% in 2006. The decrease of $422 million in 2007 was due to reduced deliveries of the Apache and T-45 aircraft and Joint Direct Attack Munitions, partially offset by higher deliveries of
Chinook and F-18 aircraft and higher volume on the P-8A program. The revenue growth of $799 million in 2006 was driven by higher deliveries of F-15 and Apache aircraft and higher volume on P-8A, F-22, and Chinook, partially offset by reduced
revenues on AEW C.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   Deliveries of new-build production aircraft, excluding remanufactures and modifications, were as follows:
        
           Operating Earnings
 PE MS operating earnings increased by $421 million in 2007 primarily due to the 2006 charges of $770 million on the AEW C development program, which were partially offset by lower 2007 earnings due to revised cost estimates on the
international KC-767 Tanker program, lower prices on the C-17 program and revised cost and revenue estimates on the AEW C program. Operating earnings decreased by $512 million in 2006 due to the above mentioned AEW C charge, which was
partially offset by earnings from revenue growth, favorable contract mix, and reduced Company-Sponsored Research   Development expenditures on the 767 Tanker program.             Research and Development  The PE MS segment continues to focus its research and development resources where it can use its
customer knowledge, technical strength and large-scale integration capabilities to provide innovative solutions to meet the war fighter s enduring needs. Research and development has remained consistent over the past several years. Research and
development activities leverage our capabilities in architectures, system-of-systems integration and weapon systems technologies to develop solutions which are designed to enhance our customers  capabilities in the areas of mobility, precision
effects, situational awareness and survivability. These efforts focus on increasing mission effectiveness and interoperability, and improving affordability, reliability and economic ownership. Continued research and development investments in
unmanned technology and systems have enabled the demonstration of multi-vehicle coordinated flight and distributed control of high-performance unmanned combat air vehicles. Research and development in advanced weapons technologies emphasizes, among
other things, precision guidance and multi-mode targeting. Research and development investments in the Global Tanker Aircraft program represent a significant opportunity to provide state-of-the-art refueling capabilities to domestic and non-U.S.
customers. Investments were also made to support various intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance business opportunities including P-8A and AEW C aircraft. Other research and development efforts include upgrade and technology insertions to
network-enable and enhance the capability and competitiveness of current product lines such as the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15E Eagle, AH-64 Apache, CH-47 Chinook and C-17 Globemaster.            Backlog  PE MS total backlog decreased by 6% in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to deliveries and sales on C-17,
F/A-18, P-8A and F-15. These decreases were partially offset by a multi-year contract for F-22 aircraft and international orders for AEW C and F/A-18 aircraft. Total backlog decreased by 8% in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily due to deliveries
and sales on F/A-18 and F-15 from multi-year contracts awarded in prior years.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    Additional Considerations            Items which could have a future impact on PE MS operations include the following:       
       AEW C   During 2006 we recorded charges of $770 million on our international Airborne Early Warning   Control program. This
development program, also known as Wedgetail in Australia and Peace Eagle in Turkey, consists of a 737-700 aircraft outfitted with a variety of command and control and advanced radar systems, some of which have never been installed on an airplane
before. Wedgetail includes six aircraft and Peace Eagle includes four aircraft. This is an advanced and complex fixed-price development program involving technical challenges at the individual subsystem level and in the overall integration of these
subsystems into a reliable and effective operational capability. We believe that the cost estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate; however, the technical complexity of the programs creates financial risk as additional
completion costs may be necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be missed.              International KC-767 Tanker Program   During 2007, the PE MS segment recorded charges of $152 million which were partially offset at the consolidated level. Currently the international KC-767 Tanker program includes four
aircraft for the Italian Air Force and four aircraft for the Japanese Air Self Defense Force. These charges are associated with additional estimated costs for mitigating both the risks on the flight test program and the delivery risk associated with
the Italy and Japan contracts. These programs are ongoing, and while we believe the cost estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of the programs creates financial risk as additional completion and
development costs may be necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be missed.              C-17   As of December 31, 2007 we delivered 171 of the 190 C-17 aircraft ordered by the U.S. Air Force, with final deliveries scheduled for 2009. In June 2007, based upon continued bipartisan congressional support,
including the House Armed Services Committee addition of $2.4 billion for 10 C-17s in their mark of the 2008 budget, and U.S. Air Force testimony to Congress reflecting interest in additional C-17 aircraft, we directed key suppliers to begin work on
10 aircraft beyond the 190 currently on order. As of December 31, 2007, inventory expenditures and potential termination liabilities to suppliers for work performed related to anticipated orders for 10 C-17 aircraft to the U.S. Air Force and
anticipated international orders for 3 additional aircraft totaled approximately $215 million. It is reasonably possible that we will decide in 2008 to complete production of the C-17 if further orders are not received. We are still evaluating the
full financial impact of a potential production shut-down, including any recovery that would be available from the government. Such recovery from the government would not include the costs incurred by us resulting from the second-quarter direction
to key suppliers to begin working on the additional 10 aircraft.             Network and Space
Systems Operating Results          
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues  N SS revenues decreased 2% in both 2007 and 2006. The decrease of $245 million in 2007 was
primarily due to the exclusion of government Delta volume, now a component of our equity investment in ULA and lower FCS volume, partially offset by increased volume on SBInet and several satellite programs. The decrease of $280 million in 2006 was
primarily due to lower volume in Proprietary and GMD as well as the divestiture of our Rocketdyne business, which were partly offset by significant growth in FCS and higher Delta IV volume. Additional impacts resulted from fewer milestone
completions in our commercial satellite business in 2006 and the completion of a Homeland Security contract in 2005.            Delta launch and new-build satellite deliveries were as follows:         
          Delta government launches are excluded from our
deliveries after December 1, 2006 due to the formation of ULA.             Operating Earnings  N SS operating earnings decreased by $61 million in 2007 and decreased by $443 million in 2006. The decrease in 2007 was due to lower earnings on FCS and several satellite programs. These decreases were
partially offset by higher award fees on GMD and a $44 million gain on sale of Anaheim property. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to the $569 million net gain on the Rocketdyne sale and higher contract values for Delta IV launch contracts in
2005, partially offset by increased earnings in the FCS program in 2006. N SS operating earnings include equity earnings of $85 million, $71 million and $72 million from the United Space Alliance joint venture in 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively and equity loss of $11 million and equity earnings of $5 million from the ULA joint venture in 2007 and 2006. The ULA equity earnings and loss amounts are net of the basis difference amortization.             Divestitures  On February 28, 2005, we completed the stock sale of
Electronic Dynamic Devices Inc. to L-3 Communications. On August 2, 2005 we completed the sale of our Rocketdyne business to United Technologies Corporation. See Note 7 Exit Activity and Divestitures.             Research and Development  The N SS research and development funding remains
focused on the development of intelligence and surveillance systems; communications and command and control capabilities that support a network-enabled architecture approach for our various government customers. We are investing in the
communications market to enable connectivity between existing air/ground platforms, increase communications availability and bandwidth through more robust space systems, and leverage innovative communications concepts. Key programs in this area
include Joint Tactical Radio System, FCS, Global Positioning System, and Transformational Satellite Communications System. Investments were also made to support concepts that will lead to the development of next-generation space intelligence
systems. Along with increased funding to support these areas of architecture and network-enabled capabilities development, we also maintained our investment levels in global missile defense and advanced missile defense concepts and technologies.
            Backlog  N SS total backlog decreased by 7% in 2007 compared
with 2006 due to revenues recognized on multi-year orders received in prior years on FCS and Proprietary programs, partially offset by an increase in our Space Exploration programs. Total backlog decreased by 7% in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily
due to revenues recognized on multi-year orders received in prior years on the FCS program.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    Additional Considerations             Items which could have a future impact on N SS operations include the following:       
       United Launch Alliance   On December 1, 2006, we completed the transaction with Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed) to create a
50/50 joint venture named United Launch Alliance L.L.C. (ULA). ULA combines the production, engineering, test and launch operations associated with U.S. government launches of Boeing Delta and Lockheed Atlas rockets. In connection with the
transaction, we initially contributed net assets of $914 million at December 1, 2006. On July 24, 2007 we and Lockheed reached agreement with respect to resolution of the final working capital and the value of the launch vehicle support
contracts that each party contributed to form ULA. Effective August 15, 2007 the parties received all necessary approvals pursuant to the terms of the Consent Order and the terms of the agreement which resulted in additional
contributions from both parties with Boeing agreeing to contribute an additional $97 million which did not result in a cash outflow as it will be offset against future payments due to us from ULA associated with an inventory supply agreement.
Additionally, conformed accounting adjustments made by ULA resulted in adjustments to ULA s balance sheet. The book value of our investment exceeds our proportionate share of ULA s net assets. This difference will be expensed ratably in
future years. Based on the adjusted contributions and the conformed accounting policies established by ULA, this amortization is expected to be approximately $14 million annually for the next 17 years.            In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed each committed to provide up
to $25 million in additional capital contributions and we each have agreed to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 million to support its working capital requirements. We and Lockheed transferred performance responsibility for certain U.S.
government contracts to ULA as of the closing date. We and Lockheed agreed to jointly guarantee the performance of those contracts to the extent required by the U.S. government.            In December 2006, we agreed to indemnify ULA through December 31, 2020 against potential non-recoverability of $1,375 million of
Boeing Delta inventories included in contributed assets plus $1,860 million of inventory subject to the inventory supply agreement which ends on March 31, 2021. Since inception, ULA sold $443 million of inventories that were contributed by us.
During 2007, ULA determined that certain Delta II inventory is not fully recoverable. As a result we recorded charges of $31 million for non-recoverable Delta II inventory and $39 million for our share of the loss recorded by ULA related to Delta
II. Future decisions regarding the Delta II program could reduce our earnings by up to $100 million.            We also agreed to indemnify ULA in the event ULA is unable to obtain re-pricing of certain contracts which we contributed to ULA and to which we believe ULA is entitled. We will be responsible for any
shortfall and may record up to $332 million in pre-tax losses related to these contracts.              Sea Launch   The Sea Launch venture, in which we are a 40% partner, provides ocean-based launch services to commercial satellite customers.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

   We have issued credit guarantees to creditors of the Sea Launch venture to assist it in obtaining financing. In the
event we are required to perform on these guarantees, we believe we can recover a portion of the cost (estimated at $486 million) through guarantees from the other venture partners. The components of this exposure are as follows:         
          We made no additional capital contributions to
the Sea Launch venture during the year ended December 31, 2007.            The
venture conducted zero, five and four successful launches for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. A Sea Launch Zenit-3SL vehicle, carrying a Boeing-built NSS-8 satellite, experienced an anomaly during launch on
January 30, 2007. The launch platform has been repaired and resumed flight operations on January 15, 2008, successfully launching a Boeing-built satellite. The venture incurred losses in 2007 due to a delay in its 2007 launch manifest
that was caused by the launch anomaly and unusually strong ocean currents at the launch site during November and December. The venture incurred losses in 2006 and 2005 due to the relatively low price and volume of launches, driven by a depressed
commercial satellite market and oversupply of launch vehicles as well as a high level of debt and debt servicing requirements.            We suspended recording equity losses after writing our investment in and direct loans to Sea Launch down to zero in 2001 and accruing our obligation for third-party
guarantees on Sea Launch indebtedness. We are not obligated to provide any further financial support to the Sea Launch venture. However, in the event that we do extend additional financial support to Sea Launch in the future, we will recognize
suspended losses as appropriate. In addition, we continue to look at alternative capital structures for the venture.              Satellites   The Boeing-built NSS-8 satellite was declared a total loss due to an anomaly during launch on January 30, 2007. The NSS-8 satellite was insured for
$200 million which was collected during the second and third quarter of 2007. New Skies Satellites B.V. (New Skies) declined to exercise its option to purchase a replacement spacecraft due to its assertion that we anticipatorily breached the
contract. We believe that had New Skies exercised its option, we would have fulfilled our contractual responsibilities. We do not expect New Skies  assertion to materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or
cash flows.                See the discussions of Boeing Satellite
Systems International, Inc. (BSSI) litigation/arbitration with ICO Global Communications (Operations), Ltd., Thuraya Satellite Telecommunications, Telesat Canada, and Space Communications Corporation in Note 21.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Support Systems Operating Results          
           Revenues  Support Systems
revenues increased $308 million in 2007 and $814 million in 2006, an increase of 5% and 15%. The increases were due to higher Integrated Logistics (IL) program volume resulting from the 2006 acquisition of Aviall, Inc. (Aviall) and increased revenue
on the C-17 support program. Higher international program volume in 2007 was the result of our increased ownership in Alsalam Aircraft Company (Alsalam) which occurred during the second quarter of 2006. Lower volume on several Maintenance,
Modification and Upgrades (MM U) and Training Systems and Services (TS S) programs partially offset the 2007 increases. Higher volume on several MM U programs also contributed to the significant growth in 2006 revenues.            In the second quarter of 2006 we increased our ownership interest in Alsalam, which
operates as a Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility for various military and commercial aircraft. As a result, we began consolidating Alsalam s financial statements, which generated revenues of $207 million during 2007 and $137 million
during the last three quarters of 2006.             Operating Earnings
 Support Systems operating earnings increased by 5% in 2007 and increased by 9% in 2006 driven by the revenue increases mentioned above in addition to a different contract mix.             Research and Development  Support Systems continues to focus investment strategies on its core businesses including IL,
MM U, TS S and Advanced Logistics Support Systems, as well as on moving into the innovative Network Centric Logistics areas. Investments have been made to continue the development and implementation of innovative and disciplined tools,
processes and systems as market discriminators in the delivery of integrated customer solutions. Examples of successful programs stemming from these investment strategies include the C-17 Globemaster Sustainment Partnership, the F/A-18 Integrated
Readiness Support Teaming program, and the F-15 Singapore Performance Based Logistics contract.             Backlog  Support Systems total backlog increased by 3% in 2007 compared with 2006 due to increases in TS S programs and International Support programs which were partially offset by decreases in
MM U and IL programs. Total backlog increased by 6% in 2006 compared with 2005 driven by a large IL order for Chinook support.             Boeing Capital Corporation Segment              Business Environment and Trends             BCC s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 totaled $6,532 million, which was substantially collateralized by Boeing produced commercial aircraft. While worldwide
traffic levels are well above those in the past, the effects of higher fuel prices continue to impact the airline industry. At the same time, the credit ratings of some airlines, particularly in the United States, have remained at low levels. A
substantial portion of BCC s portfolio is concentrated among U.S. commercial airline customers.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

   Certain aircraft models in BCC s portfolio have recently experienced a lower rate of decline in market value
and some models have experienced increases in market value. This market value condition had been due to certain positive factors including passenger load at record high levels, a limited supply of economically viable used aircraft, increasing lease
rates, and increased demand from used aircraft buyers.            Aircraft values
and lease rates are impacted by the number and type of aircraft that are currently out of service. Approximately 1,600 commercial jet aircraft (8.2% of current world fleet) continue to be parked, including both in-production and out-of-production
aircraft types, of which over 60% are not expected to return to service. Aircraft valuations could decline if significant numbers of aircraft, particularly types with relatively few operators, are placed out of service.             Summary Financial Information          
           Revenues             BCC segment revenues consist principally of lease income from equipment under
operating lease and interest from financing receivables and notes. BCC s revenues decreased $210 million in 2007, resulting from lower interest income on notes receivable of $75 million, lower investment income of $50 million primarily due to
the sale or repayment at maturity of certain investments in 2006 and lower net gain on disposal of assets of $47 million. BCC s revenues increased $59 million in 2006, primarily due to an increase of investment income and higher gain on the
sale of aircraft and certain investments in notes receivable.             Operating earnings  
           BCC s operating earnings are presented net of interest expense,
provision for (recovery of) losses, asset impairment expense, depreciation on leased equipment and other operating expenses. Operating earnings decreased by $57 million in 2007 primarily due to lower revenues partially offset by lower interest
expense, lower asset impairment expense and lower depreciation expense and a recovery of losses. The increase in operating earnings in 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily due to higher revenues.             Financial Position             The following table presents selected financial data for BCC:         
          BCC s customer financing
and investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 decreased from December 31, 2006 due to prepayment of certain notes receivable, normal portfolio run-off and sale of certain portfolio assets. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, BCC had $86
million and $259 million of  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

assets that were held for sale or re-lease of which $86 million and $253 million had firm contracts to be sold or placed on lease. Additionally, aircraft subject to
leases with a carrying value of approximately $292 million are scheduled to be returned off lease in the next 12 months. These aircraft are being remarketed or the leases are being extended and $132 million were committed at December 31, 2007.
           BCC enters into certain transactions with the Other segment in the form of intercompany
guarantees and other subsidies.             Finance Restructurings             From time to time, certain BCC customers have requested a restructuring of their
transactions with BCC. As of December 31, 2007, BCC has not reached agreement on any restructuring requests that would have a material adverse effect on its earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.             Other Segment        
     Other segment operating losses were $243 million during 2007 as compared to losses of $738 million in 2006. The reduction of $495 million was
primarily due to the absence of losses related to Connexion by Boeing, which we exited in 2006. As part of our exit from this business, we recognized a charge of $320 million in 2006, in addition to losses of $237 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006. We have not reached final settlements with all customers or suppliers. We do not believe the final settlements will have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.            Other segment operating losses were $738 million during 2006 as compared to losses of
$363 million in 2005. The increase of $375 million was primarily due to the $320 million charge from the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business and the $68 million environmental expense recognized in 2006. The Other segment recorded $74 million of
lower valuation allowances for customer financing in 2006 compared to 2005. Additionally, during 2005, the Other segment recognized earnings of $63 million associated with the buyout of several operating lease aircraft by a customer.             Liquidity and Capital Resources              Cash Flow Summary             (Dollars in millions)         
           Operating activities  Net
cash provided by operating activities increased by $2,085 million to $9,584 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in Net earnings. In addition, working capital improved in 2007, reflecting higher advances driven by commercial airplane orders
and decreases in customer financing assets due to pre-payment of certain notes receivable and normal portfolio run-off, which were partially offset by an increase in inventories driven by the continued ramp-up of the 787 program.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

   Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $499 million to $7,499 million in 2006. The increase was
primarily due to working capital improvements which were partially offset by lower Net earnings. The working capital improvements in 2006 compared with 2005 reflect $1,340 million of lower pension contributions in 2006. Working capital reductions in
2006 also reflect higher advances driven by commercial airplane orders, decreased investment in customer financing, and lower income tax payments which were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other liability.             Investing activities  Cash used for investing activities increased to $3,822
million in 2007 from $3,186 million in 2006, largely due to increases in short-term investments, primarily time deposits and commercial paper, partially offset by our investment in the acquisition of Aviall in 2006. At December 31, 2007 the
recorded balances of time deposits and commercial paper classified as short-term investments were $1,025 million and $799 million.            As of December 31, 2007, our externally managed portfolio of investment grade fixed income instruments had an average duration of 1.5 years. The balance, at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, was $3,269 million and $3,180 million, of which $306 million and $257 million was classified as short-term. The investments are held as available for sale.            Cash used for investing activities increased to $3,186 million in 2006 from $98 million
in 2005. The increase is primarily due to our investment of $1,738 million in the 2006 acquisition of Aviall, net of $42 million of cash acquired, and $458 million of assumed debt, in an all-cash merger. The assumed debt was repaid on the
acquisition closing date. In 2005, we received proceeds of $1,676 million, primarily from the disposition of our Commercial Airplanes operations in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma, and the sale of Rocketdyne.             Financing activities  Cash used by financing activities increased to $4,884
million in 2007 from $3,645 million in 2006 primarily due to increased common share repurchases. Cash used by financing activities decreased to $3,645 million in 2006 from $4,657 million in 2005 primarily due to lower common share repurchases.
           During 2007, we repurchased 28,995,599 shares at an average price of
$95.68 in our open market share repurchase program and 28,432 shares in stock swaps. During 2006, we repurchased 21,184,202 shares at an average price of $80.18 in our open market share repurchase program, 3,749,377 shares at an average price of
$80.28 as part of the ShareValue Trust distribution, and 49,288 shares in stock swaps. During 2005, we repurchased 45,217,300 shares at an average price of $63.60 in our open market share repurchase program and 33,660 shares in stock swaps.
           In 2007, we repaid $1,406 million of debt, including $1,309 million of
debt held at BCC. In 2006, we repaid $1,681 million of debt, including $713 million of debt held at BCC and $458 million of debt assumed in the Aviall acquisition. In 2005, we repaid $1,378 million of debt. There were no debt issuances during 2007,
2006, or 2005. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the recorded balance of debt was $8,217 million and $9,538 million, of which $4,327 million and $5,590 million was recorded at BCC.             Credit Ratings  Our credit ratings are summarized below:         

Fitch  
      
  Moody s  
      
  Standard   Poor s   
 
    Long-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  A+  
      
  A2  
      
  A+   
 
    Short-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  F1  
      
  P-1  
      
  A-1   

39   

Table of Contents  

   On September 12, 2007, Fitch Ratings revised its ratings outlook to positive from stable, citing continuation
of strong orders and production ramp up of large commercial aircraft, in addition to an over-funded status of our pension plans, debt reduction and stronger than expected cash flows. The ratings were reaffirmed at A+ for long-term borrowings and F1
for short-term borrowings. On January 16, 2008, Fitch Ratings changed their outlook on the A+ rating to stable from positive, citing the impact of delays in the 787 program.             Capital Resources  We and BCC have commercial paper programs that continue to serve as significant potential sources of
short-term liquidity. Throughout 2007 and at December 31, 2007, neither we nor BCC had any commercial paper borrowings outstanding.            We believe we have substantial borrowing capacity. Currently, we have $3,000 million ($1,500 million exclusively available for BCC) of unused borrowing on revolving
credit line agreements. In 2007, we renewed the 364-day revolving credit facility and the 5-year credit facility, of which $500 million and $1,000 million is allocated to BCC. BCC has an aggregate of $3,421 million available for issuance from shelf
registrations filed with the SEC, which are due to expire in November 2008. We believe our internally generated liquidity, together with access to external capital resources, will be sufficient to satisfy existing commitments and plans, and also to
provide adequate financial flexibility to take advantage of potential strategic business opportunities should they arise within the next year.            We and Lockheed have agreed to make available to ULA a line of credit in the amount of up to $200 million each as may be necessary from time to time to support
ULA s Expendable Launch Vehicle business during the five year period following December 1, 2006. ULA did not request any funds under the line of credit as of December 31, 2007.            In accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  (SFAS 158), we recognize the funded
status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, with a corresponding after-tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive loss. The 2007 annual remeasurement of our pension and other postretirement plans resulted in a net
$3,441 million increase in Shareholders  equity.            As of
December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the covenants for our debt and credit facilities.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments             The following table summarizes our known obligations to make future payments pursuant
to certain contracts as of December 31, 2007, and the estimated timing thereof.             Contractual obligations          

*  
    Includes interest on variable rate debt calculated based on interest rates at December 31, 2007. Variable rate debt was approximately 3% of our total debt at
December 31, 2007.                Income tax obligations 
As of December 31, 2007, our total liability for income taxes payable, including uncertain tax positions, was $1,374 million, of which $253 million we expect to pay in the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of
future cash flows related to the remaining $1,121 million. Our income tax obligations are excluded from the table above. See Note 4.             Pension and other postretirement benefits  Pension cash requirements are based on an estimate of our minimum funding requirements, pursuant to ERISA
regulations, although we may make additional discretionary contributions. Estimates of other postretirement benefits are based on both our estimated future benefit payments and the estimated contributions to a single plan that is funded through a
trust.             Purchase obligations  Purchase obligations represent
contractual agreements to purchase goods or services that are legally binding; specify a fixed, minimum or range of quantities; specify a fixed, minimum, variable, or indexed price provision; and specify approximate timing of the transaction. In
addition, the agreements are not cancelable without substantial penalty. Purchase obligations include amounts recorded as well as amounts that are not recorded on the statements of financial position. Approximately 11% of the purchase obligations
disclosed above are reimbursable to us pursuant to cost-type government contracts.             Purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  Production related purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include agreements for
production goods, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts, property, plant and equipment, and other miscellaneous production related obligations. The most significant obligation relates to inventory procurement contracts. We have
entered into certain significant inventory procurement contracts that specify determinable prices and quantities, and long-term delivery timeframes. In addition, we purchase raw materials on behalf of our suppliers. These agreements require
suppliers and vendors to be prepared to build and deliver items in sufficient time to meet our production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises from the extended production planning horizon for many of our
products. A significant portion of these inventory commitments is supported by firm contracts and/or has historically resulted in settlement  
       
   41   

Table of Contents  

through reimbursement from customers for penalty payments to the supplier should the customer not take delivery. These amounts are also included in our forecasts of
costs for program and contract accounting. Some inventory procurement contracts may include escalation adjustments. In these limited cases, we have included our best estimate of the effect of the escalation adjustment in the amounts disclosed in the
table above.             Industrial participation agreements  We have entered
into various industrial participation agreements with certain customers outside of the U.S. to facilitate economic flow back and/or technology transfer to their businesses or government agencies as the result of their procurement of goods and/or
services from us. These commitments may be satisfied by our placement of direct work or vendor orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts, transfer of technology or other forms of assistance. However, in certain cases, our
commitments may be satisfied through other parties (such as our vendors) who purchase supplies from our non-U.S. customers. We do not commit to industrial participation agreements unless a contract for sale of our products or services is signed. In
certain cases, penalties could be imposed if we do not meet our industrial participation commitments. During 2007, we incurred no such penalties. As of December 31, 2007, we have outstanding industrial participation agreements totaling $8.9
billion that extend through 2024. Purchase order commitments associated with industrial participation agreements are included in the table above. To be eligible for such a purchase order commitment from us, a country outside the U.S. or customer
must have sufficient capability to meet our requirements and must be competitive in cost, quality and schedule.             Purchase obligations recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  Purchase obligations recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position primarily include accounts payable
and certain other liabilities including accrued compensation and dividends payable.             Commercial commitments  The following table summarizes our commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2007.         
          Aircraft financing commercial
commitments include commitments to arrange or provide financing related to aircraft on order, under option for deliveries or proposed as part of sales campaigns based on estimated earliest funding dates. Based on historical experience, we currently
do not anticipate that all of these commitments will be exercised by our customers, see Note 13.             Industrial Revenue Bonds  We utilize Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB) issued by the City of Wichita, Kansas and Fulton County, Georgia to finance the purchase and/or construction of real and personal
property, see Note 12.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

    Contingent Obligations             We have significant contingent obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business, which include the following:             Legal  Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations are pending against
us. Most significant legal proceedings are related to matters covered by our insurance. Legal contingencies are discussed in Note 21, including our contesting the default termination of the A-12 aircraft, employment and benefits litigation brought
by several of our employees, and litigation/arbitration involving BSSI programs.               Environmental Remediation  We are involved with various environmental remediation activities and have recorded a liability of $679 million at December 31, 2007. For additional information, see Note 13. 
             Income Taxes  We have recorded a net liability of $1,272
million at December 31, 2007 for uncertain tax positions. For further discussion of these contingencies, see Note 4.             Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements             We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including certain guarantees. For discussion of these arrangements, see Note 12.             Critical Accounting Policies              Contract Accounting             Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and costs for each contract, which results in the development of estimated cost of sales percentages. For each contract, the
amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue recognized.            Due to the size, length of time and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs through completion is complicated and subject to many
variables. Total contract sales estimates are based on negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance, and price
adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). The majority of these contracts are with the U.S. government. Generally the price is based on estimated cost to produce the product or service plus profit. The Federal Acquisition
Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in establishing contract price. Total contract cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business
base and other economic projections. Factors that influence these estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated
labor agreements.            The development of cost of sales percentages involves
procedures and personnel in all areas that provide financial or production information on the status of contracts. Estimates of each significant contract s sales and costs are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Any changes in these estimates
result in recognition of cumulative adjustments to the contract profit in the period in which changes are made.            Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions, or if the
underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

periods. If the combined gross margin for all contracts in IDS for all of 2007 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1.0%, it would have increased or decreased
pre-tax income for the year by approximately $321 million.             Program Accounting  
           Program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably
estimate the relationship of sales to costs for the defined program accounting quantity. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery
under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of existing and anticipated contracts. For each program, the amount
reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the customer.            Factors that must be estimated include program accounting quantity, sales price, labor
and employee benefit costs, material costs, procured parts, major component costs, overhead costs, program tooling costs, and routine warranty costs. Estimation of the accounting quantity for each program takes into account several factors that are
indicative of the demand for the particular program, such as firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. Total estimated program sales are determined by estimating the model mix and sales price for all unsold units
within the accounting quantity, added together with the sales for all undelivered units under contract. The sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation adjustment that is based on projected escalation
rates, consistent with typical sales contract terms. Cost estimates are based largely on negotiated and anticipated contracts with suppliers, historical performance trends, and business base and other economic projections. Factors that influence
these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, customer and/or supplier claims or assertions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends.            To ensure reliability in our estimates, we employ a rigorous estimating process that is
reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimates are normally recognized on a prospective basis; when estimated costs to complete a program exceed estimated revenues from undelivered units in the accounting quantity, a loss provision
is recorded in the current period.            The program method of accounting
allocates tooling and production costs over the accounting quantity for each program. Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new program and substantial investment required for initial tooling, new commercial
aircraft programs, such as the 787 program, typically have lower margins than established programs.            Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions, or if the
underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future periods. If combined cost of sales percentages for all commercial airplane
programs for all of 2007 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1%, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the year by approximately $278 million.       
      Aircraft Valuation               Impairment review for assets under operating leases and held for sale or re-lease   We evaluate assets under operating lease or assets held for sale or re-lease for impairment when the expected
undiscounted cash flow from the asset is less than its carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow including our intentions for how long we will  
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

hold an asset subject to operating lease before we sell the asset, the expected future lease rates, lease terms, residual value of the asset, periods in which the
asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset.            When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment expense recorded is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of
the asset.            Had future lease rates on assets evaluated for impairment
been 10% lower, we estimate that we would have incurred additional impairment expense of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.            Used aircraft acquired by the Commercial Airplanes segment are included in Inventory at the lower of cost or market as it is our intent to sell these assets. To
mitigate costs and enhance marketability, aircraft may be placed on operating lease. While on operating lease, the assets are included in  Customer financing , however, the valuation continues to be based on the lower of cost or market.
             Allowance for losses on customer financing receivables   The
allowance for losses on receivables (valuation provision) is used to provide for potential impairment of receivables on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The balance represents an estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the
receivables portfolio. The estimate is based on various qualitative and quantitative factors, including historical loss experience, collateral values, and results of individual credit and collectibility reviews. The adequacy of the allowance is
assessed quarterly.            Two of the major factors influencing the level of
our allowance are customer credit ratings and collateral values. If each customer s credit rating were increased or decreased by one major rating category at December 31, 2007, the allowance would have decreased by $22 million or increased
by $49 million. If the collateral values were 10% lower at December 31, 2007, the allowance would have increased by $27 million.              Lease residual values   Equipment under operating leases is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and is depreciated to estimated residual value
using the straight-line method over the period that we project we will hold the asset for lease. Estimates used in determining residual values significantly impact the amount and timing of depreciation expense for equipment under operating leases.
If the estimated residual values declined 5% at December 31, 2007, this would result in a future cumulative pre-tax earnings impact of $105 million recognized over the remaining depreciable periods, of which $10 million would be recognized in
2008.             Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairments             Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized
but are tested for impairment annually, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. Our annual testing date is April 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing
the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is
estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment.            We estimate the fair values of the related operations using discounted cash flows.
Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future sales and operating costs, based primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market conditions. Changes in
these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

   The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from our market capitalization plus a
suitable control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price may also affect the amount of impairment recorded. At the date of our previous impairment test, a 10% increase or decrease in the value of our common stock
would have had no impact on the financial statements.            Indefinite-lived
intangibles consist of brand and trade names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles for impairment by comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any
excess carrying value over the amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment. A 10% decrease in the discounted cash flows would result in an impairment charge of approximately $11 million.             Postretirement plans             We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all our employees. We also have other postretirement benefits consisting
principally of healthcare coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Accounting rules require an annual measurement of our projected obligations and plan assets. These measurements require several assumptions, the most significant of
which are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend rate (rate of growth for medical costs). Changes in assumptions can significantly affect our future annual expense. In addition, as result of our adoption of
SFAS 158, differences between actual and expected returns on assets, changes in assumptions, and changes in plan provisions could significantly increase or decrease Shareholders  Equity (net of taxes) at future measurement dates.            We use a discount rate that is based on a point-in-time estimate as of our
September 30 annual measurement date. Changes in the discount rate will increase or decrease our recorded liabilities with a corresponding adjustment to Shareholders  Equity as of the measurement date. In the following table, we show the
sensitivity of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 25 basis point change in the discount rate.            As of September 30, 2007 (in millions)         

Change in discount rate Increase 25 bps  

Change in discount rate Decrease 25 bps   
 
     Pension plans    
      
  Dollars  

Dollars   

Projected benefit obligation (pensions)   
      
  (1,263  
  )  
     
  1,436   
 
    Net periodic pension cost   
      
  (145  
  )  
     
  155   

Other postretirement benefit plans    

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  (168  
  )  
     
  185   
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   
      
  (14  
  )  
     
  13   

Pension expense is also
sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long-term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2007 pension income by approximately $114 million.
Differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long term rate of return are reflected in Shareholders  Equity (net of taxes) as of our annual measurement date.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

   The assumed medical trend rates have a significant effect on the following year s expense recorded liabilities
and Shareholders  Equity. In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 100 basis point change.            As of September 30, 2007 (in millions)         

Change in medical trend rate Increase 100 bps  
      
  Change in medical trend rate Decrease 100 bps  

Other postretirement benefit plans    

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  621  
      
  (545  
  )   
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   
      
  121  
      
  (109  
  )   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk              Interest rate risk             We have financial
instruments that are subject to interest rate risk, principally investments, fixed-rate debt obligations, and customer financing assets and liabilities. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on these instruments due to
interest rate changes. Additionally, BCC uses interest rate swaps with certain debt obligations to manage exposure to interest rate changes.            The principal source of BCC s market risk relates to interest rate changes. This risk is managed by matching the profile of BCC s liabilities with the
profile of BCC s assets. Exposure to mismatched risk is measured and managed with the use of interest rate derivatives. We do not use interest rate derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Although many of the assets, liabilities and
derivatives affected by a change in interest rates are not traded, if we had an immediate, one-time, 100 basis-point increase in market rates at December 31, 2007, we estimate that the tax-adjusted net fair value of these items would have
decreased by $12 million compared to a decrease of $9 million at December 31, 2006.            Based on the portfolio of other Boeing existing debt, the unhedged exposure to interest rate risk is not material. The investors in the fixed-rate debt obligations that we issue do not generally have the right to demand we pay
off these obligations prior to maturity. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not believed to be material for our fixed-rate debt.             Foreign currency exchange rate risk             We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies. We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge the
price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to our ongoing business. Foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2007,
a 10% unfavorable exchange rate movement in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have reduced our unrealized gains by $69 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such
unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward currency contracts and the offsetting underlying
commitments do not create material market risk.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data              Consolidated Statements of Operations          
          See notes to consolidated financial statements
on pages 53   107.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statements of Financial Position        
  
          See notes to consolidated financial statements
on pages 53   107.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows          
          See notes to consolidated financial statements
on pages 53   107.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity          
          See notes to consolidated
financial statements on pages 53   107.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Summary of Business Segment Data          
          This information is an integral part of the
Notes to consolidated financial statements. See Note 22 for further segment results.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    THE BOEING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS           Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006,
2005           (Dollars in millions except per share data)        
      Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies              Principles of consolidation             Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities that are required to be consolidated.             Use of estimates        
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make assumptions and estimates that directly affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant estimates for which changes in the near term are considered reasonably possible and that may have a material
impact on the financial statements are disclosed in these notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.             Operating cycle             For classification of
certain current assets and liabilities, we use the duration of the related contract or program as our operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year and could exceed 3 years.             Revenue and related cost recognition              Contract accounting  Contract accounting is used for development and production activities predominantly by the three segments within Integrated Defense
Systems (IDS). These activities include the following products and systems: military aircraft, helicopters, missiles, space systems, missile defense systems, satellites, and information and battle management systems. The majority of business
conducted in the IDS segments is performed under contracts with the U.S. government and non-U.S. governments that extend over a number of years. Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and costs for each
contract resulting in the development of estimated cost of sales percentages. For each contract, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue recognized.   
        We combine contracts for accounting purposes when they are negotiated as a package
with an overall profit margin objective, they essentially represent an agreement to do a single project for a single customer, they involve interrelated construction activities with substantial common costs, and they are performed concurrently or
sequentially. When a group of contracts is combined, revenue and profit are earned uniformly over the performance of the combined contracts.            Sales related to contracts with fixed prices are recognized as deliveries are made, except for certain fixed-price contracts that require substantial performance
over an extended period before deliveries begin, for which sales are recorded based on the attainment of performance milestones. Sales related to contracts in which we are reimbursed for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit are recorded as
costs are incurred. The Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in establishing contract price. Contracts may contain provisions to earn incentive and award fees if specified targets are
achieved. Incentive and award fees that can be reasonably estimated and are probable are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentive and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Program accounting  Our Commercial Airplanes segment predominantly uses program accounting to account for
cost of sales related to commercial airplane programs. Program accounting is a method of accounting applicable to products manufactured for delivery under production-type contracts where profitability is realized over multiple contracts and years.
Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs, program tooling costs, and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged to cost of sales by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated
number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make
reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of existing and anticipated contracts. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in
a program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling, and routine warranty costs for the total program.            We recognize sales for commercial airplane deliveries as each unit is completed and
accepted by the customer. Sales recognized represent the price negotiated with the customer, adjusted by an escalation formula as specified in the customer agreement. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost
of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the customer.             Concession sharing arrangements  We account for sales concessions to our customers in consideration of their purchase of products and services as a reduction
to revenue (sales concessions) when the related products and services are delivered. The sales concessions incurred may be partially reimbursed by certain suppliers in accordance with concession sharing arrangements. We record these reimbursements,
which are presumed to represent reductions in the price of the vendor s products or services, as a reduction in Cost of products.             Spare parts revenue  We recognize sales of spare parts upon delivery and the amount reported as cost of sales is recorded at average cost.             Service revenue  Service revenue is recognized in Sales of services when the
service is performed with the exception of U.S. government service agreements, which are accounted for using contract accounting. Service activities primarily include the following: Delta launches, ongoing maintenance of International Space Station
and Space Shuttle, support agreements associated with military aircraft and helicopter contracts, and technical and flight operation services for commercial aircraft. Lease and financing revenue arrangements are also included in Sales of services on
the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Service revenue and associated cost of sales from pay-in-advance subscription fees are deferred and recognized as services are rendered.             Financial services revenue  We record financial services revenue associated with sales-type finance leases, operating leases,
and notes receivable.            For sales-type finance leases, we record an asset
at lease inception. This asset is recorded at the aggregate future minimum lease payments, estimated residual value of the leased equipment, and deferred incremental direct costs less unearned income. Income is recognized over the life of the lease
to approximate a level rate of return on the net investment. Residual values, which are reviewed periodically, represent the estimated amount we expect to receive at lease termination from the disposition of the leased equipment. Actual residual
values realized could differ from these estimates. Declines in estimated residual value that are deemed other than temporary are recognized as Cost of services in the period in which the declines occur.            For operating leases, revenue on leased aircraft and equipment is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Operating lease assets, included in Customer financing, are recorded at cost and depreciated over the period that we project we will hold the asset to an estimated residual  
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

value, using the straight-line method. Prepayments received on operating lease contracts are classified as Deferred lease income on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position. We periodically review our estimates of residual value and recognize forecasted changes by prospectively adjusting depreciation expense.            For notes receivable, notes are recorded net of any unamortized discounts and deferred incremental direct costs. Interest income and amortization of any discounts
are recorded ratably over the related term of the note.             Reinsurance
revenue  Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, Astro Ltd., participates in a reinsurance pool for workers  compensation. The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance pool minimize any participating members  individual risk.
Reinsurance revenues were $84, $84, and $101 during 2007, 2006, and 2005 respectively. Reinsurance costs related to premiums and claims paid to the reinsurance pool were $93, $91, and $115 during 2007, 2006, and 2005 respectively. Revenues and costs
are presented net in Cost of services in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.             Fleet support             We provide the operators of all our
commercial airplane models assistance and services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services include flight and maintenance training, field service support,
engineering services, and technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training, manuals, and technical consulting support, and continues throughout the operational life of the
aircraft. Services provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair, and operational issues brought forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the issuance of service
bulletins that impact the entire model s fleet. Field service support involves our personnel located at customer facilities providing and coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred
as Cost of services.             Research and development             Research and development includes costs incurred for experimentation, design, testing,
and bid and proposal efforts related to government products and services and are expensed as incurred unless the costs are related to certain contractual arrangements. Costs that are incurred pursuant to such contractual arrangements are recorded
over the period that revenue is recognized, consistent with our contract accounting policy. We have certain research and development arrangements that meet the requirement for best efforts research and development accounting. Accordingly, the
amounts funded by the customer are recognized as an offset to our research and development expense rather than as contract revenues.            We have established cost sharing arrangements with some suppliers for the 787 program, which have enhanced our internal development capabilities and have offset a
substantial portion of the financial risk of developing this aircraft. Our cost sharing arrangements explicitly state that the supplier contributions are for reimbursements of costs we incur for experimentation, basic design, and testing activities
during the development of the 787. In each arrangement, we retain substantial rights to the 787 part or component covered by the arrangement. The amounts received from these cost sharing arrangements are recorded as a reduction to research and
development expenses since we have no obligation to refund any amounts received per the arrangements regardless of the outcome of the development efforts. Specifically, under the terms of each agreement, payments received from suppliers for their
share of the costs are typically based on milestones and are recognized as earned  
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

when we achieve the milestone events and no ongoing obligation on our part exists. In the event we receive a milestone payment prior to the completion of the
milestone, the amount is classified in Accounts payable and other liabilities until earned.             Share-based compensation             Our primary types of
share-based compensation consist of Performance Shares, ShareValue Trust distributions, stock options, and other stock unit awards. In 2005, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS
No. 123R) using the modified prospective method.             Income taxes             Provisions for federal, state, and non-U.S. income taxes are calculated on reported
Earnings before income taxes based on current tax law and also include, in the current period, the cumulative effect of any changes in tax rates from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such provisions differ
from the amounts currently receivable or payable because certain items of income and expense are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes. Significant judgment is required in determining
income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions.            Effective
January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48), which requires a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement
recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We record a liability for the difference between the benefit recognized and measured pursuant to FIN 48 and the tax position taken or expected to be taken on
our tax return. To the extent that our assessment of such tax positions changes, the change in estimate is recorded in the period in which the determination is made. Prior to 2007, we established contingencies for income tax when, despite the belief
that our tax positions were fully supportable, we believed that it was probable that our positions would be challenged and possibly disallowed by various authorities. The consolidated tax provision and related accruals included the impact of such
reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate.            With the adoption of FIN 48, we also began reporting tax-related interest and penalties as a component of Income tax expense. Prior to 2007, income tax-related interest income was classified as Other income, net, whereas,
tax-related interest expense and penalties were reported as a component of Income tax expense.             Postretirement plans             We sponsor various pension plans
covering substantially all employees. We also provide postretirement benefit plans other than pensions, consisting principally of health care coverage to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Benefits under the pension and other
postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at retirement and years of service and for some pension plans, benefits are also based on the employee s annual earnings. The net periodic cost of our pension and other postretirement
plans is determined using the projected unit credit method and several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend (rate of growth for medical costs). A portion of
net periodic pension and other postretirement income or expense is not recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and reflected in inventory at the end of a reporting period. If gains and
losses, which occur when actual experience differs from actuarial assumptions, exceed ten percent of the greater of plan assets or plan liabilities we amortize them over the average future service period of employees.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   Effective December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  (SFAS No. 158) which requires that the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflect the funded status of the pension
and postretirement plans.             Postemployment plans             We record a liability for postemployment benefits, such as severance or job training,
when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated.             Environmental remediation             We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. We routinely assess, based on
in-depth studies, expert analyses and legal reviews, our contingencies, obligations, and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites, including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties who have and
have not agreed to a settlement and of recoveries from insurance carriers. Our policy is to accrue and charge to current expense identified exposures related to environmental remediation sites based on our best estimate within a range of potential
exposure for investigation, cleanup, and monitoring costs to be incurred. Estimated remediation costs are not discounted to present value as the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. We may be able to recover a portion of the
remediation costs from insurers or other third-parties; such recoveries are recorded when realization of the claim for recovery is deemed probable.             Cash and cash equivalents             Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, time deposits, and other money market instruments, which have original maturities of less
than three months. We aggregate our cash balances by bank, and reclassify any negative balances to Accounts payable and other liabilities.             Inventories             Inventoried costs on commercial aircraft programs and long-term contracts include direct engineering, production and tooling costs, and applicable overhead, which includes fringe benefits, production related indirect and plant
management salaries and plant services, not in excess of estimated net realizable value. To the extent a material amount of such costs are related to an abnormal event or are fixed costs not appropriately attributable to our programs or contracts,
they are expensed in the current period rather than inventoried. Inventoried costs include amounts relating to programs and contracts with long-term production cycles, a portion of which is not expected to be realized within one year. Included in
inventory for federal government contracts is an allocation of allowable costs related to manufacturing process reengineering. We net advances and progress billings on long-term contracts against costs incurred to date for each contract in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Contracts where costs incurred to date exceed advances and progress billings are reported in Inventories, net of advances and progress billings. Contracts where advances and progress billings exceed
costs incurred to date are reported in Advances and billings in excess of related costs.            Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new or derivative commercial airplane program (known as the learning curve effect), the actual costs incurred for production of the early units in
the program may exceed the amount reported as cost of sales for those units. In addition, the use of a total program gross profit rate to delivered units may result in costs  
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

assigned to delivered units in a reporting period being less than the actual cost of those units. The excess actual costs incurred over the amount reported as cost of
sales is disclosed as deferred production costs, which are included in inventory along with unamortized tooling costs.            The determination of net realizable value of long-term contract costs is based upon quarterly contract reviews that determine an estimate of costs to be incurred to
complete all contract requirements. When actual contract costs and the estimate to complete exceed total estimated contract revenues, a loss provision is recorded. The determination of net realizable value of commercial aircraft program costs is
based upon quarterly program reviews that determine an estimate of revenue and cost to be incurred to complete the program accounting quantity. When estimated costs to complete exceed estimated program revenues to go, a loss provision is recorded.
           Used aircraft purchased by the Commercial Airplanes segment and general
stock materials are stated at cost not in excess of net realizable value. See  Aircraft valuation  within this Note for our valuation of used aircraft purchased by the Commercial Airplanes segment. Spare parts inventory is stated at lower
of average unit cost or market. We review our commercial spare parts and general stock materials each quarter to identify impaired inventory, including excess or obsolete inventory, based on historical sales trends, expected production usage, and
the size and age of the aircraft fleet using the part. Impaired inventories are charged to Cost of products in the period the impairment occurs.            Included in inventory for commercial aircraft programs are amounts paid or credited in cash, or other consideration to certain airline customers, that are referred
to as early issue sales consideration. Early issue sales consideration is recognized as a reduction to revenue when the delivery of the aircraft under contract occurs. In the unlikely situation that an airline customer was not able to perform and
take delivery of the contracted aircraft, we believe that we would have the ability to recover amounts paid through retaining amounts secured by advances received on aircraft to be delivered. However, to the extent early issue sales consideration
exceeds advances and is not considered to be recoverable, it would be recognized as a current period expense.             Precontract costs             We may, from time to
time, incur costs to begin fulfilling the statement of work under a specific anticipated contract that we are still negotiating with a customer. If we determine it is probable that we will be awarded the specific anticipated contract, then we
capitalize the precontract costs we incur, excluding any start-up costs which are expensed as incurred. Capitalized precontract costs of $27 and $40 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, are included in Inventories, net of advances and progress
billings, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.             Property, plant and equipment             Property, plant and
equipment are recorded at cost, including applicable construction-period interest, less accumulated depreciation and are depreciated principally over the following estimated useful lives: new buildings and land improvements, from 10 to 40 years; and
new machinery and equipment, from 3 to 20 years. The principal methods of depreciation are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 150% declining balance; and machinery and equipment, sum-of-the-years  digits. Capitalized internal use
software is included in Other assets and amortized using the straight line method over five years. We periodically evaluate the appropriateness of remaining depreciable lives assigned to long-lived assets, including assets that may be subject to a
management plan for disposition.            We review long-lived assets, which
includes property, plant and equipment, for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  (SFAS No. 144). Long-lived assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost
or fair value less cost to  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

sell. Long-lived assets held for use are subject to an impairment assessment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.             Asset retirement obligations             On December 31, 2005, we adopted FIN No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  (FIN 47) .  In accordance with FIN 47, we record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal,
asset decommissioning and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts are not material.            We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that are not reasonably estimable due
to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, these obligations have not been recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. A liability for these obligations will be recorded in the period
when sufficient information regarding timing and method of settlement becomes available to make a reasonable estimate of the liability s fair value. In addition, there may be conditional asset retirement obligations that we have not yet
discovered (e.g. asbestos may exist in certain buildings but we have not become aware of it through the normal course of business), and therefore, these obligations also have not been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.             Goodwill and other acquired intangibles             Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized,
but are tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that impairment may exist. Our annual testing date is April 1.            We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of net assets to
the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on
the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment.       
     Indefinite-lived intangibles consist of brand and trade names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles for impairment by
comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any excess carrying value over the amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment.            Our finite-lived acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives as follows: developed technology, 5 to 12 years; product know-how, 30 years; customer base, 12 to 15 years; distribution rights, 6 to 30 years; and other, 2 to 17 years. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, we evaluate
the potential impairment of finite-lived acquired intangible assets when appropriate. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference between
the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Investments             We classify investment securities as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Held-to-maturity securities include commercial paper and are carried at
amortized cost.            Available-for-sale securities include marketable debt
and equity securities and Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificates (EETCs) and are recorded at their fair values, with unrealized gains and losses reported as part of Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. Realized gains and losses on marketable securities are recognized based on the cost of securities using the first-in, first-out method. Realized gains and losses on all other available-for-sale securities are recognized based on specific
identification.            The fair value of marketable securities is based on
quoted market prices. The fair value of non-publicly traded securities, including certain EETCs, is based on discounted cash flows at market yield. In cases when we determine that it is probable that recovery of our investment will come from
recovery of collateral, the fair value is based on the underlying collateral.            Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are assessed for impairment quarterly. To determine if an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider the duration and severity of the loss position, the strength of the underlying
collateral, the term to maturity, and credit rating. For investments that are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, losses are recorded in Cost of products or Cost of services and payments received on these investments are recorded using the cost
recovery method.            The equity method of accounting is used to account for
investments for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if we have an ownership interest in the voting stock of an investee of between 20% and
50%.            We classify investment income and loss on our Consolidated
Statements of Operations based on whether the investment is operating or non-operating in nature. Operating investments align strategically and are integrated with our operations. Earnings from operating investments, including our share of income or
loss from equity method investments, dividend income from certain cost method investments, and any gain/loss on the disposition of these investments, are recorded in Income from operating investments, net. Non-operating investments are those we hold
for non-strategic purposes. Earnings from non-operating investments, including interest and dividends on marketable securities, are recorded in Other income, net.             Derivatives             All derivative instruments are recognized in the financial statements and measured at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent of holding them. We use
derivative instruments to principally manage a variety of market risks. We record our interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives and commodity contracts at fair value based on discounted cash flow analyses. For derivatives designated as
hedges of the exposure to changes in fair value of the recognized asset or liability or a firm commitment (referred to as fair value hedges), the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or
gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. The effect of that accounting is to include in earnings the extent to which the hedge is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. For our cash flow hedges, the
effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported in shareholders  equity (as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss) and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during
which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss of a cash flow hedge is reported in earnings immediately. We also hold certain instruments for economic purposes that are not designated for hedge
accounting treatment. For these derivative instruments, the changes in their fair value are also recorded in earnings as Other income, net.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    Aircraft valuation              Used aircraft under trade-in commitments and aircraft under repurchase commitments  In conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new
aircraft (Sale Aircraft), we have entered into specified-price trade-in commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in used aircraft upon the purchase of Sale Aircraft. Additionally, we have entered into contingent
repurchase commitments with certain customers wherein we agree to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a specified price, generally ten years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually
acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft. If we execute an agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft, and if the customer exercises its right to sell the Sale Aircraft to us, a contingent repurchase commitment would
become a trade-in commitment. Our historical experience is that no contingent repurchase agreements have become trade-in commitments.            All trade-in commitments at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are solely attributable to Sale Aircraft and did not originate from contingent repurchase agreements.
Exposure related to trade-in commitments may take the form of:         

(1)  
     
    Adjustments to revenue for the difference between the contractual trade-in price in the definitive agreement and our best estimate of the fair value of the trade-in
aircraft as of the date of such agreement, would be recorded in Inventory and recognized upon delivery of the Sale Aircraft, and/or            

(2)  
     
    Charges to cost of products for adverse changes in the fair value of trade-in aircraft that occur subsequent to signing of a definitive agreement for Sale Aircraft but
prior to the purchase of the used trade-in aircraft. Estimates based on current aircraft values would be included in Accounts payable and other liabilities.               The fair value of trade-in aircraft is determined using aircraft specific data such as model, age and condition, market conditions for
specific aircraft and similar models, and multiple valuation sources. This process uses our assessment of the market for each trade-in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are several possible
markets in which we continually pursue opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include, but are not limited to, the resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long-term storage; the leasing market, with the potential for
refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customer s requirements; or the scrap market. Trade-in aircraft valuation varies significantly depending on which market we determine is most likely for each aircraft. On a quarterly basis, we update our
valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each aircraft into a market. This quarterly valuation process yields results that are typically lower than residual value estimates by independent sources and tends to more
accurately reflect results upon the actual placement of the aircraft.            Used aircraft acquired by the Commercial Airplanes segment are included in Inventories at the lower of cost or market as it is our intent to sell these assets. To mitigate costs and enhance marketability, aircraft may be placed on operating
lease. While on operating lease, the assets are included in Customer financing, however, the valuation continues to be based on the lower of cost or market. The lower of cost or market assessment is performed quarterly using the process described
above.             Asset valuation for assets under operating lease, assets held
for sale or re-lease and collateral underlying receivables  Customer financing includes operating lease equipment, notes receivables, and sales-type/financing leases. Sales-type/financing leases are treated as receivables, and allowances for
losses are established as necessary.            We assess the fair value of the
assets we own, including equipment under operating leases, assets held for sale or re-lease, and collateral underlying receivables, to determine if their fair values are less  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

than the related assets  carrying values. Differences between carrying values and fair values of finance leases and notes and other receivables, as determined by
collateral value, are considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables.            We use a median calculated from published collateral values from multiple third-party aircraft value publications based on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances,
we apply judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft or equipment, usually when the features or use of the aircraft vary significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications.              Impairment review for assets under operating leases and held for sale or
re-lease   We evaluate assets under operating lease or assets held for sale or re-lease for impairment when the expected undiscounted cash flow from the asset is less than the carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the
expected undiscounted cash flow including our intentions for how long we will hold an asset subject to operating lease before it is sold, the expected future lease rates, lease terms, residual value of the asset, periods in which the asset may be
held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset. We state assets held for sale at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.            When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment
expense recorded is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.              Allowance for losses on receivables   We record the potential impairment of receivables in our portfolio in a valuation account, the balance of which is an accounting estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in
the receivables portfolio. The allowance for losses on receivables relates to two components of receivables: (a) specifically identified receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment and (b) all other receivables.   
        We determine a receivable is impaired when, based on current information and events,
it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the receivable agreement, without regard to any subsequent restructurings. Factors considered in assessing collectibility include, but are
not limited to, a customer s extended delinquency, requests for restructuring and filings for bankruptcy. We determine a specific impairment allowance based on the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair
value of the related collateral.            We review the adequacy of the allowance
attributable to the remaining receivables (after excluding receivables subject to a specific impairment allowance) by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable cumulative default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable
is the excess of the carrying value of the receivable over the fair value of the related collateral. A receivable with an estimated fair value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable cumulative
default rate is determined using two components: customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining contract term. Credit ratings are determined for each customer in the portfolio. Those ratings are updated based upon public information and
information obtained directly from our customers.            We have entered into
agreements with certain customers that would entitle us to look beyond the specific collateral underlying the receivable for purposes of determining the collateral exposure as described above. Should the proceeds from the sale of the underlying
collateral asset resulting from a default condition be insufficient to cover the carrying value of our receivable (creating a shortfall condition), these agreements would, for example, permit us to take the actions necessary to sell or retain
certain other assets in which the customer has an equity interest and use the proceeds to cover the shortfall.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   Each quarter we review customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for different rating
categories, and multiple third party aircraft value publications as a basis to validate the reasonableness of the allowance for losses on receivables. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from estimates or that the
consideration of these factors in the future will not result in an increase or decrease to the allowance for losses on receivables.             Supplier Penalties             We record an accrual for supplier penalties when an event occurs that makes it probable that a supplier penalty will be incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Until an event occurs, we fully
anticipate accepting all products procured under production-related contracts.             Guarantees             We account for guarantees in accordance with
FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others . We record a liability for the fair value of guarantees in Accounts Payable and
other liabilities that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002. For a residual value guarantee where we received a cash premium, the liability is equal to the cash premium received at the guarantee s inception. For credit and
performance guarantees, the liability is equal to the present value of the expected loss. We determine the expected loss by multiplying the creditor s default rate by the guarantee amount reduced by the expected recovery, if applicable, for
each future period the credit or performance guarantee will be outstanding. If at inception of a guarantee, we determine there is a probable related contingent loss, we will recognize a liability for the greater of (a) the fair value of the
guarantee as described above or (b) the probable contingent loss amount.             Note 2
  Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles             Changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:         

1       
     
     On September 20, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Aviall, Inc. (Aviall) for
$1,780. The acquisition of Aviall was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was allocated to the net assets acquired based on their fair values and finalized in the fourth quarter of 2006.

2       
     
     The increase in goodwill is primarily the result of an acquisition in the second quarter 2006. The
purchase price allocation for this acquisition was finalized in the fourth quarter of 2006.             
   63   

Table of Contents  

3       
     
     The increase in goodwill is primarily the result of an acquisition in the first quarter 2007. The
purchase price allocation for this acquisition was finalized in the fourth quarter of 2007.                As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets with carrying amounts of $499 relating to tradenames.            Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $152 and
$100. Estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years are as follows: 2008   $209; 2009   $207; 2010   $183; 2011   $134 and 2012   $124.            The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization of our other acquired finite-lived intangible assets were as follows at
December 31:         
          Acquired finite-lived intangibles of $342 remain
unpaid as of December 31, 2007.             Note 3   Earnings Per Share    
        The weighted-average number of shares outstanding (in millions) for the years ended
December 31, used to compute earnings per share are as follows:         
          The numerator used to compute
diluted earnings per share is as follows:         
          Expense related to diluted
shares in the amount of $2 and $27 in 2007 and 2006 represented mark-to-market adjustment of vested performance shares to employees terminated as of December 31, 2005.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by the sum of (1) net income less declared dividends divided by the
basic weighted average shares outstanding and (2) declared dividends divided by the weighted average shares outstanding.            The weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the year ended December 31 (in millions), included in the table below, is excluded from the computation
of diluted earnings per share because the average market price did not exceed the exercise/threshold price. However, these shares may be dilutive potential common shares in the future.         
           Note 4   Income Taxes             The components of earnings before income taxes were:         
          Income tax expense/(benefit)
consisted of the following:         
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

   The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% to our recorded income tax
expense/(benefit):         
          Significant components of our
deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, at December 31 were as follows:         
       
          Net deferred tax assets at December 31 were as follows:         
          We recorded net deferred tax liabilities of $11
and $171 in 2007 and 2006, which were primarily due to acquisitions.            As
required under SFAS 123R, deferred tax liabilities of $79 and $306 were reclassified to Additional paid in capital in 2007 and 2006. This represents the tax effect of the net excess tax pool created during 2007 and 2006 due to share awards paid with
a fair market value in excess of the book accrual for those awards.            Included in the net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are deferred tax assets in the amounts of $3,169 and $5,240 related to other comprehensive income.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   Net income tax payments/(refunds) were $711, $28 and ($344) in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            We have provided for U.S. deferred income taxes and foreign withholding tax in the
amount of $48 on undistributed earnings not considered permanently reinvested in our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We have not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding tax on the remainder of undistributed earnings from our non-U.S.
subsidiaries because such earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested and it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that may be payable upon distribution.             FASB Interpretation No. 48             Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 which prescribes a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for
interest and penalties associated with tax positions, accounting for income taxes in interim periods and income tax disclosures. The cumulative effects of applying this interpretation have been recorded as a decrease of $11 to Retained earnings, an
increase of $125 to Deferred income taxes and an increase of $136 to Income taxes payable as of January 1, 2007.            In conjunction with adoption of FIN 48, we classified uncertain tax positions as non-current income tax liabilities unless expected to be paid in one year. We also
began reporting income tax-related interest income in Income tax expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In prior periods, such interest income was reported in Other income. Within the Consolidated Statements of Operations, Other income
included interest of $16 in 2006 and $100 in 2005 related to federal income tax settlements for prior years. Penalties and tax-related interest expense are reported as a component of Income tax expense. As of December 31 and January 1,
2007, the amount of accrued income tax-related interest and penalties included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was as follows: interest of $143 and $63, and penalties of $17 and $1. The amounts of interest and penalties accrued
during 2007 are $108 and $17 respectively.            We are subject to examination
in the U.S. federal tax jurisdiction for the 1998-2007 tax years. We are also subject to examination in major state and foreign jurisdictions for the 2001-2007 tax years, for which no individually material unrecognized tax benefits exist. During the
third quarter of 2007 we received an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit report for the 2002-2003 tax years and have filed an appeal. We have also filed appeals with the IRS for the 1998-2001 tax years. We believe appropriate provisions for all
outstanding issues have been made for all jurisdictions and all open years.            A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:         
          As of December 31 and
January 1, 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1,272 and $1,097, of which $1,032 and $905 would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized. These amounts are primarily associated with U.S. federal tax issues such as the
tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI) tax rules, the amount of research and development tax  
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

credits claimed, U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, and valuation issues regarding charitable contributions claimed. Also included in these amounts are accruals for
domestic state tax issues such as the allocation of income among various state tax jurisdictions and the amount of state tax credits claimed.            It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we and the IRS will resolve some of the matters presently under consideration at appeals for 1998-2003
which may increase or decrease unrecognized tax benefits for all open tax years. Settlement could increase earnings in an amount ranging from $0 to $130 based on current estimates. Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are
subject to significant uncertainty.            The Research and Development credit
expired on December 31, 2007. The credit provided a 2.4% and a 0.7% reduction in the 2007 and 2006 effective tax rate. Congress is currently considering bills that will extend the credit. If the Research and Development credit is not
legislatively enacted there could be an unfavorable impact on our 2008 effective income tax rate.             Note 5   Accounts Receivable             Accounts receivable
at December 31 consisted of the following:         
       
          The following table summarizes our accounts receivable under long-term contracts that were not billable or related to outstanding
claims as of December 31:         
          Unbillable receivables on
long-term contracts arise when the sales or revenues based on performance attainment, though appropriately recognized, cannot be billed yet under terms of the contract as of the balance sheet date. Accounts receivable related to claims are items
that we believe are earned, but are subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or ultimate realization. Accounts receivable, other than those described above, expected to be collected after one year are not material.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

    Note 6   Inventories             Inventories at December 31 consisted of the following:         
          Delta launch program inventories
that will be sold at cost to United Launch Alliance L.L.C. (ULA) under an inventory supply agreement that terminates on March 31, 2021 are included in long-term contracts in progress inventories. At December 31, 2006, the inventory balance was
$1,860. No sales have occurred through December 31, 2007. As part of its integration ULA is continuing to assess the future of the Delta II program. During the third quarter of 2007, ULA determined that certain Delta II inventory is not fully
recoverable. As a result we recorded charges of $31 for non-recoverable Delta II inventory and $39 for our share of the loss recorded by ULA related to Delta II. Future decisions regarding the Delta II program could reduce our earnings by up to $100
(see Note 12).            As a normal course of our Commercial Airplanes segment
production process, our inventory may include a small quantity of airplanes that are completed but unsold. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the value of completed but unsold aircraft in inventory was insignificant. Inventory balances included
$234 subject to claims or other uncertainties relating to the A-12 program as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 (See Note 21).            Commercial aircraft program inventory includes amounts credited in cash or other consideration (early issued sales consideration), to airline customers totaling
$1,355 and $1,375 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.            Deferred
production costs represent commercial aircraft programs production costs incurred on in-process and delivered units in excess of the estimated average cost of such units. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the balance of deferred production
costs and unamortized tooling related to commercial aircraft programs, except the 777 program, was insignificant relative to the programs  balance-to-go estimates. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, all significant excess deferred
production costs or unamortized tooling costs are recoverable from existing firm orders for the 777 program. The deferred production costs and unamortized tooling are summarized in the following table:         
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

    Note 7   Exit Activity and Divestitures        
     During August 2006, we decided that we would exit the Connexion by Boeing high speed broadband communications business. Our decision resulted in a
pre-tax charge of $320, which has been recognized in Loss/(gain) on dispositions/business shutdown, net during 2006 as outlined below:         

1       
     Included termination fees associated with operating leases as well as supplier and customer costs

2       
     Primarily included write-off of capital lease assets       

3       
     Primarily early terminations of capital lease obligations                As of December 31, 2006, $52 was recorded in Accounts payable and other
liabilities related to contract termination costs, which was substantially paid out during 2007 to complete the business shutdown. The exit of the Connexion by Boeing business resulted in cash expenditures of $177 during 2006.            On February 28, 2005, we completed the stock sale of Electron Dynamic Devices Inc.
(EDD) to L-3 Communications. EDD was a separate legal entity wholly owned by us. The corresponding net assets of the entity were $45 and a net pre-tax gain of $25 was recorded in the Network and Space Systems (N SS) segment of IDS from the sale
of the net assets. In addition, there was a related pre-tax loss of $68 recorded in Accounting differences/eliminations for net pension and other postretirement benefit curtailments and settlements. In 2006, a $15 gain was recorded for a subsequent
purchase price adjustment on the sale.            On August 2, 2005, we
completed the sale of the Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power (Rocketdyne) business to United Technologies Corporation for cash proceeds of approximately $700 under an asset purchase agreement. This divestiture includes assets and sites in California,
Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida. The Rocketdyne business primarily develops and builds rocket engines and provides booster engines for the space shuttle and the Delta family as well as propulsion systems for missile defense systems. A net pre-tax
gain of approximately $578 was recorded predominantly in the N SS segment and a related pre-tax loss of $200 for estimated pension and postretirement curtailments and settlements was recorded in our Other segment.            On June 16, 2005, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets at our
Commercial Airplanes facilities in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma under an asset purchase agreement to a new entity which was subsequently named Spirit Aerosystems, Inc. (Spirit). Transaction consideration given to us included
cash of approximately $900, together with the transfer of certain liabilities and long-term supply agreements that provide us with ongoing cost savings. The consolidated net loss on this sale recorded in 2005 was $287, including pension and
postretirement impacts. We recognized a loss of $103 in 2005 in the Consolidated Statement of Operations as Gain on dispositions, net, of which $68 was recognized by the Commercial Airplanes segment and $35 was recognized as Accounting
differences/eliminations and Unallocated expense. The remaining loss of $184 related to estimated pension and postretirement curtailments and settlements, was recorded in our Other segment. In 2006, a $15 gain was recorded for a subsequent purchase
price adjustment on the sale.            See Note 12 for discussion of the
environmental indemnification provisions of these agreements.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

    Note 8   Customer Financing          
  Customer financing at December 31 consisted of the following:         
          Interest rates on fixed-rate
notes ranged from 5.50% to 10.33%, and interest rates on variable-rate notes ranged from 6.92% to 10.90%.            The components of investment in sales-type/finance leases at December 31 were as follows:         
          Aircraft financing operating
lease equipment primarily includes jet and commuter aircraft. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, aircraft financing operating lease equipment included $86 and $259 of equipment available for re-lease. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had firm
lease commitments for $86 and $253 of this equipment.            When our
Commercial Airplanes segment is unable to immediately sell used aircraft, it may place the aircraft under an operating lease. It may also finance the sale of new aircraft with a note receivable. The carrying amount of the Commercial Airplanes
segment used aircraft under operating leases and aircraft sales financed with notes receivable included as a component of customer financing totaled $156 and $480 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.            Impaired receivables and the allowance for losses on those receivables consisted of the
following at December 31:         
          The average recorded investment
in impaired receivables as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $589, $1,191, and $1,196, respectively. Income recognition is generally suspended for receivables at the date full recovery of income and principal becomes doubtful. Income is
recognized when  
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

receivables become contractually current and performance is demonstrated by the customer. Interest income recognized on such receivables was $50, $104, and $90 for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            The
change in the allowance for losses on receivables for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, consisted of the following:         
          Aircraft financing is
collateralized by security in the related asset. The value of the collateral is closely tied to commercial airline performance and may be subject to reduced valuation with market decline. Our financing portfolio has a concentration of various model
aircraft. Aircraft financing related to major aircraft concentrations at December 31 were as follows:         

*  
    Out of production aircraft               We recorded charges related to customer financing asset impairment in operating earnings, primarily as a result of declines in projected future cash flows. These
charges for the years ended December 31 were as follows:         
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Scheduled payments on customer financing are as follows:         
          Customer financing assets we
leased under capital leases and subleased to others totaled $43 and $137 at December 31, 2007 and 2006.             Note 9   Property, Plant and Equipment             Property, plant and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:         
          Depreciation expense was $978,
$1,058 and $1,001 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 totaled $117, $110 and $84, respectively. At December 31, 2007, we had
$314 of operating lease properties, net of $202 of accumulated depreciation.            For the year ended December 31, 2006, $357 of capital lease obligations was incurred. Capital lease obligations incurred were not material for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005.            Rental expense for leased properties was $411, $388 and $400, for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For the same periods, these expenses, substantially all minimum rentals, were net of sublease income of $26, $18, and $22. At December 31, 2007, minimum rental payments under capital leases
aggregated $16, and payments due under capital leases during the next five years are not material. Minimum rental payments under operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more aggregated $1,038, net of sublease payments of $47,
at December 31, 2007. Payments, net of sublease amounts, due under operating leases during the next five years are as follows:         
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

   Noncancellable future rentals due from customers for equipment on operating leases aggregated $137 for the year
ended December 31, 2007. Payments due during the next five years are as follows:         
           Note 10   Cash, Cash Equivalents, and
Investments             Our investments, which are recorded in either Cash and
cash equivalents, Short-term investments or Investments, consisted of the following at December 31:         
           Available-for-sale investments
            Our investments in available-for-sale debt and equity securities
consisted of the following at December 31:         

(2)  
     
    The portfolio is diversified and highly liquid and primarily consists of investment grade fixed income instruments such as U.S. dollar debt obligations of the United
States Treasury, other government agencies, corporations, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. We believe that the unrealized losses are not other-than-temporary. We do not have a foreseeable need to liquidate the portfolio and anticipate
recovering the full value of the securities either as market conditions improve, or as the securities mature.            
   74   

Table of Contents  

   The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2007, were as follows:
        
          Supplemental information about
gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities for the years ended December 31, are as follows:         
           Held-to-maturity investments    
        Our investments in held-to-maturity securities consist of commercial paper with
maturities of less than one year. The held-to-maturity securities are recorded at their amortized cost of $2,301 and $290 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, which approximates their fair value.             Equity Method and Other Investments              Equity Method Investments             Our effective ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments consisted of the following as of December 31:

(1)  
     
    Credit balances are a result of our proportionate share of the joint venture s pension and postretirement related adjustments which reduce the carrying value of the
investment.            
   75   

Table of Contents  

   On December 1, 2006, we entered into a transaction with Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed) to create a
50/50 joint venture named United Launch Alliance L.L.C. (ULA). ULA combines the production, engineering, test and launch operations associated with U.S. government launches of Boeing Delta and Lockheed Atlas rockets. ULA conducted 13 and one
successful launches for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. We and Lockheed each have agreed to provide ULA with initial cash contributions of up to $25, and we each have agreed to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 to support
its working capital requirements. See Note 21.            On July 24, 2007, we
and Lockheed reached an agreement with respect to resolution of the final working capital and the value of the launch vehicle support contracts that each party contributed to form ULA. Effective August 15, 2007, the parties received all
necessary approvals pursuant to the terms of the Consent Order with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the terms of the agreement, which resulted in additional contributions from both parties with Boeing agreeing to contribute an additional $97.
Our additional contribution liability will be offset by future payments from ULA under the Inventory Supply Agreement.            The Sea Launch venture, in which we are a 40% partner with RSC Energia of Russia (25%), Aker ASA of Norway (20%), PO Yuzhmash (10%) and SDO Yuzhnoye
(5%) of the Ukraine, provides ocean-based launch services to commercial satellite customers. The venture conducted zero, five and four successful launches for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A Sea Launch
Zenit-3SL vehicle, carrying a Boeing-built NSS-8 satellite, experienced an anomaly during launch on January 30, 2007. The launch platform has been repaired and resumed flight operations on January 15, 2008, successfully launching a
Boeing-built satellite. We have financial exposure with respect to the venture, which relates to guarantees provided by us to certain Sea Launch creditors, performance guarantees provided by us to a Sea Launch customer, and financial exposure
related to advances and other assets reflected in the consolidated financial statements.            We suspended recording equity losses after writing our investment in and direct loans to Sea Launch down to zero in 2001 and accruing our obligation for third-party guarantees on Sea Launch indebtedness. We are not obligated to
provide any further financial support to the Sea Launch venture. However, in the event that we do extend additional financial support to Sea Launch in the future, we will recognize suspended losses as appropriate. In addition, we continue to look at
alternative capital structures for the venture.             Other Investments             During 2005, we recorded an asset impairment charge of $42 in Other income related to
the sale of certain investments in technology related funds for proceeds of $24.             Note
11   Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities             Accounts payable
and other liabilities at December 31 consisted of the following:         
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

(c)  
     
    Forward loss recognition relates primarily to Airborne Early Warning   Control.               Payments associated with these liabilities may occur in periods significantly beyond the next twelve months. Accounts payable included
$265 and $335 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, attributable to checks written but not yet cleared by the bank.             Note 12   Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk             We enter into arrangements with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business, as discussed below. These arrangements are primarily in the form of product
warranties and guarantees.             Product warranties             We provide product warranties in conjunction with certain product sales. The majority
of our warranties are issued by our Commercial Airplanes segment. Generally, aircraft sales are accompanied by a three- to four-year standard warranty for systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by us or manufactured to
certain standards under our authorization. These warranties are included in the programs  estimate at completion (EAC). Additionally, on occasion we have made commitments beyond the standard warranty obligation to correct fleet wide major
warranty issues of a particular model. These costs are expensed as incurred. These warranties cover factors such as non-conformance to specifications and defects in material and design. Warranties issued by our IDS segments principally relate to
sales of military aircraft and weapons hardware. These sales are generally accompanied by a six to twelve-month warranty period and cover systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by us to certain contractual specifications.
These warranties cover factors such as non-conformance to specifications and defects in material and workmanship.            Estimated costs related to standard warranties are recorded in the period in which the related product sales occur. The warranty liability recorded at each balance sheet date reflects the estimated number
of months of warranty coverage outstanding for products delivered times the average of historical monthly warranty payments, as well as additional amounts for certain major warranty issues that exceed a normal claims level. Estimated costs of these
additional warranty issues are considered changes to the initial liability estimate. The following table summarizes product warranty activity recorded during 2007 and 2006.         

*  
    Amounts included in Accounts payable and other liabilities            
   77   

Table of Contents  

    Third-party guarantees             The following tables provide quantitative data regarding our third-party guarantees. The maximum potential payments represent a  worst-case scenario,  and
do not necessarily reflect our expected results. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amount
of liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflects our best estimate of future payments we may incur as part of fulfilling our guarantee obligations.         

*  
     
    Amounts included in Accounts payable and other liabilities      
           Contingent repurchase commitments  We have entered into contingent repurchase commitments with certain customers in conjunction
with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft). Under these commitments, we agreed to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a specified price, generally ten years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the
Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft             Indemnifications to ULA  In December 2006, we agreed to indemnify ULA against potential losses that ULA may incur from certain contracts contributed by us. In the event ULA is unable to obtain
certain additional contract pricing to which we believe ULA is entitled, we will be responsible for any shortfall and may record up to $332 in pre-tax losses. The term of the indemnification is tied to the resolution of this matter with the
customer.            In December 2006, we agreed to indemnify ULA in the event that
$1,375 of Delta launch program inventories included in contributed assets and $1,860 of Delta program inventories subject to an  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

inventory supply agreement are not recoverable from existing and future orders. The term of the inventory indemnification extends to December 31, 2020. Since
inception, ULA sold $443 of inventories that were contributed by us.             Residual value guarantees  We have issued various residual value guarantees principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these guarantees, we are obligated to make payments to the guaranteed party if the
related aircraft or equipment fair values fall below a specified amount at a future time. These obligations are collateralized principally by commercial aircraft and expire in 1 to 11 years.             Credit guarantees related to the Sea Launch venture  We issued credit guarantees
to creditors of the Sea Launch venture, of which we are a 40% partner, to assist the venture in obtaining financing. Under these credit guarantees, we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that Sea Launch does not make
its loan payments. We have substantive guarantees from the other venture partners, who are obligated to reimburse us for their share (in proportion to their Sea Launch ownership percentages) of any guarantee payment we may make related to the Sea
Launch obligations. These guarantees expire within the next 8 years.             Other credit guarantees  We have issued credit guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale of commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that lease or loan
payments are not made by the original lessee or debtor. A substantial portion of these guarantees has been extended on behalf of original lessees or debtors with less than investment-grade credit. Our commercial aircraft credit-related guarantees
are collateralized by the underlying commercial aircraft. Current outstanding credit guarantees expire within the next 13 years.             Performance guarantees  We have outstanding performance guarantees issued in conjunction with joint venture investments. Pursuant to these guarantees, we
would be required to make payments in the event a third-party fails to perform specified services. We have guarantees from the other venture partners, who are obligated to reimburse us for a portion of any guarantee payments we may make related to
the performance guarantee. Current performance guarantees expire within the next 10 years.             Other indemnifications  In conjunction with our sales of the EDD and Rocketdyne businesses and the sale of our Commercial Airplanes facilities in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma in 2005, we provided
indemnifications to the buyers relating to pre-closing environmental contamination and certain other items. The terms of the indemnifications are indefinite. As it is impossible to assess whether there will be damages in the future or the amounts
thereof, we cannot estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments under these guarantees. Therefore, no liability has been recorded.             Industrial Revenue Bonds             Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRBs) issued by the City of Wichita are used to finance the purchase and/or construction of real and personal property at our Wichita site. Tax benefits associated with IRBs
include a ten-year property tax abatement and a sales tax exemption from the Kansas Department of Revenue. We record the property on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, along with a capital lease obligation to repay the proceeds of
the IRB. We have also purchased the IRBs and therefore are the bondholders as well as the borrower/lessee of the property purchased with the IRB proceeds.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

   The capital lease obligation and IRB asset are recorded net in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
pursuant to FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts . As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the assets and liabilities associated with the City of Wichita IRBs were $1,217 and $1,419.             Note 13   Other Commitments and Contingencies              Environmental matters             At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the aggregate amount of liabilities recorded relative to environmental matters were as follows:
        
          The liabilities recorded
represent our best estimate of costs expected to be incurred to remediate, operate, and maintain sites over periods of up to 30 years. Although not considered probable, it is reasonably possible that we may incur additional charges because of
regulatory complexities, higher than expected costs and the risk of unidentified contamination. As part of our estimating process, we develop a range of reasonably possible alternate scenarios which include highest cost estimates for all remediation
sites based on our experience and existing laws and regulations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006 our reasonably possible highest cost estimate for all remediation sites exceeded our recorded liabilities by $1,191 and $939, excluding the impacts
of any potential recoveries.             Discontinued operations             As part of the 2004 purchase and sale agreement with General Electric Capital
Corporation related to the sale of BCC s Commercial Financial Services business, BCC is involved in a loss sharing arrangement for losses that may exist at the end of the initial and subsequent financing periods of transferred portfolio assets,
or, in some instances, prior to the end of the financing term, such as certain events of default and repossession. As of December 31, 2007, our maximum exposure to loss associated with the loss sharing arrangement was $224. As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the accrued liability under the loss sharing arrangement was $59 and $78.             Future lease commitments             As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, future lease commitments on aircraft and other commitments not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position totaled $240 and $323. These lease commitments extend through 2020, and our intent is to
recover these lease commitments through sublease arrangements. As of December 31, 2007, the future lease commitments on aircraft for each of the next five years were as follows: $43 in 2008, $20 in 2009, $18 in 2010, $19 in 2011, and $19 in
2012. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Accounts payable and other liabilities included $42 and $65 attributable to adverse commitments under these lease arrangements.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

    Termination liability             Due to lack of demand for the 717 and 757 airplanes, we have concluded production of these airplanes. The last 717 and 757 airplanes were delivered in the second
quarter of 2006 and 2005 respectively. The following table summarizes the termination liability remaining in Accounts payable and other liabilities.         

*  
    Represents transfer to prepaid pension expense               The above liability was determined based on available information and we make revisions to our estimates accordingly as new information becomes available.
            Purchase obligations             As of December 31, 2007 and 2006 we had $104,023 and $86,254 of production
related purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Such obligations include agreements for production goods, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts, property, plant and equipment, inventory
procurement contracts, and other miscellaneous production related obligations. As of December 31, 2007, the amounts of production related purchase obligations for each of the next five years were as follows: $37,922 in 2008, $23,704 in 2009,
$17,081 in 2010, $10,976 in 2011, and $7,305 in 2012.             Commercial Aircraft commitments
            In conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of
new aircraft, we have entered into specified-price trade-in commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in their used aircraft for the purchase of Sale Aircraft. The total contractual trade-in value was $924 and $1,162 as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006. We anticipate that a significant portion of these commitments will not be exercised by customers. There were no probable contractual trade-in commitments as of December 31, 2007. These trade-in commitment
agreements have expiration dates from 2008 through 2015.             Potential C-17 shut-down
            As of December 31, 2007, we delivered 171 of the 190 C-17
aircraft ordered by the U.S. Air Force, with final deliveries scheduled for 2009. In June 2007, based upon continued bipartisan congressional support, including the House Armed Services Committee addition of $2.4 billion for 10 C-17s in their mark
of the 2008 budget, and U.S. Air Force testimony to Congress reflecting interest in additional C-17 aircraft, we directed key suppliers to begin work on 10 aircraft beyond the 190 currently on order. As of December 31, 2007, inventory
expenditures and potential termination liabilities to suppliers for  
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

work performed related to anticipated orders for 10 C-17 aircraft to the U.S. Air Force and anticipated international orders for 3 additional aircraft totaled
approximately $215. It is reasonably possible that we will decide in 2008 to complete production of the C-17 if further orders are not received. We are still evaluating the full financial impact of a potential production shut-down, including any
recovery that would be available from the government. Such recovery from the government would not include the costs incurred by us resulting from the second quarter direction to key suppliers to begin working on the additional 10 aircraft.
            Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General Audit             We have been advised by the Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General (DoD
OIG) that it is conducting an audit of the application of economic price adjustment (EPA) clauses included in our multi-year contracts for the C-17, F-18, and Apache programs. A final audit report has not been issued and the actions, if any, that
our U.S. government customers may take in response to the audit are unknown at this time, as is any potential financial impact in the future.             Satellites             The Boeing-built NSS-8 satellite was declared a total loss due to an anomaly during launch on January 30, 2007. The NSS-8 satellite was insured for $200 which was collected during the second and third quarter of 2007. New
Skies Satellites B.V. (New Skies) declined to exercise its option to purchase a replacement spacecraft due to its assertion that we anticipatorily breached the contract. We believe that had New Skies exercised its option, we would have fulfilled our
contractual responsibilities. We do not expect New Skies  assertion to materially impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.      
     In certain launch and satellite sales contracts, we include provisions that specify that we bear risk of loss associated with the launch phase
through acceptance in orbit by the customer. We have historically purchased insurance to cover these exposures when allowed under the terms of the contract and when economically advisable. The current insurance market reflects high premium rates and
also suffers from a lack of capacity to handle all insurance requirements. We make decisions on the procurement of insurance based on our analysis of risk. There is one contractual launch scheduled in 2008 for which full insurance coverage may not
be available or, if available, could be prohibitively expensive. We will continue to review this risk. We estimate that the potential uninsured amount for this launch could approach $350 depending on the nature of the uninsured event.             Financing commitments             Financing commitments totaled $8,350 and $10,164 as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. We anticipate that a significant portion of
these commitments will not be exercised by the customers as we continue to work with third party financiers to provide alternative financing to customers.            In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed each committed to provide up to $25 in additional capital contributions and we each have agreed to extend a
line of credit to ULA of up to $200 to support its working capital requirements during the five year period following December 1, 2006. ULA did not request any funds under the line of credit as of December 31, 2007.            We have entered into standby letters of credit agreements and surety bonds with
financial institutions primarily relating to the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit agreements and surety bonds aggregated approximately $4,973 as of December 31, 2007
and approximately $4,368 at December 31, 2006.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

    Company Owned Life Insurance             McDonnell Douglas Corporation insured its executives with Company Owned Life Insurance (COLI), which are life insurance policies with a cash surrender value.
Although we do not use COLI currently, these obligations from the merger with McDonnell Douglas are still a commitment at this time. We have loans in place to cover costs paid or incurred to carry the underlying life insurance policies. As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the cash surrender value was $310 and $288 and the total loans were $298 and $279. As we have the right to offset the loans against the cash surrender value of the policies, we present the net asset in Other assets
on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.             Note 14   Debt             Total debt interest incurred,
including amounts capitalized, was $591, $657, and $713 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest expense recorded by BCC is reflected as a separate line item on our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and
is included in earnings from operations. Total company interest payments were $616, $657, and $671 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.       
     We have $3,000 currently available under credit line agreements. We have given BCC exclusive access to $1,500 under these arrangements. We continue
to be in full compliance with all covenants contained in our debt or credit facility agreements, including those at BCC.            On March 23, 2004, we filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for $1,000 for the issuance of debt securities and
underlying common stock. The entire amount remains available for potential debt issuance. BCC has $3,421 that remains available from shelf registrations filed with the SEC. Both of BCC s shelf registrations expire in November 2008. The
availability of funding under these shelf registrations is dependent on investor demand and market conditions.            On June 6, 2002, BCC established a Euro medium-term note program in the amount of $1,500. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, BCC had zero debt outstanding under the program such that $1,500 would
normally be available for potential debt issuance. However, debt issuance under this program requires that documentation, information, and other procedures relating to BCC and the program be updated within the prior twelve months. In view of
BCC s cash position and other available funding sources, BCC determined during 2004 that it was unlikely they would need to use this program in the foreseeable future. The program is thus inactive but available subject to updated documentation
and procedures. The availability of funding under this program would be dependent on investor demand and market conditions.            Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt, consisted of the following:       

83   

Table of Contents  

   Debt consisted of the following:         
          At December 31, 2007, $150
of BCC debt was collateralized by portfolio assets and underlying equipment totaling $247. The debt consists of the 4.07% to 8.25% notes due through 2015.            Maturities of long-term debt for the next five years are as follows:         
           Note 15   Postretirement Plans
            We have various pension plans covering substantially all employees.
We fund all our major pension plans through trusts. Pension assets are placed in trust solely for the benefit of the plans  participants, and are structured to maintain liquidity that is sufficient to pay benefit obligations as well as to keep
pace over the long term with the growth of obligations for future benefit payments.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

   We also have postretirement benefits other than pensions which consist principally of health care coverage for
eligible retirees and qualifying dependents, and to a lesser extent, life insurance to certain groups of retirees. Retiree health care is provided principally until age 65 for approximately half those retirees who are eligible for health care
coverage. Certain employee groups, including employees covered by most United Auto Workers bargaining agreements, are provided lifetime health care coverage. We use a measurement date of September 30 for our pension and other postretirement
benefit (OPB) plans.            Effective December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS
No. 158, which requires that the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflect the funded status of the pension and postretirement plans. The funded status of the plans is measured as the difference between the plan assets at fair value
and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). We have recognized the aggregate of all overfunded plans in Pension plan assets, net and the aggregate of all underfunded plans in either Accrued retiree health care or Accrued pension plan liability, net.
The portion of the amount by which the actuarial present value of benefits included in the PBO exceeds the fair value of plan assets, payable in the next 12 months, is reflected in Accounts payable and other liabilities.            Effective December 31, 2008, SFAS No. 158 will require us to measure plan
assets and benefit obligations at fiscal year end. We currently perform this measurement at September 30 of each year. Beginning in fourth quarter of 2007 in accordance with this Standard, we eliminated the use of a three-month lag period when
recognizing the impact of curtailments or settlements and, instead, recognize these amounts in the period in which they occur. The provisions of SFAS No. 158 do not permit retrospective application.            The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:         
          Settlement and curtailment
losses/(gains) are primarily due to divestitures. See Note 7.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   The following shows changes in the benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of both pensions and OPB.
Benefit obligation balances presented below reflect the PBO for our pension plans, and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) for our OPB plans.         
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

   Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2007 are as follows:         
          The estimated amount that will
be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during the year ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:         
          The accumulated benefit
obligation (ABO) for all pension plans was $41,818 and $41,706 at September 30, 2007 and 2006. All of our major tax qualified pension plans have plan assets that exceed the ABO at September 30, 2007. Key information for all plans with ABO
in excess of plan assets as of September 30 is as follows:         
          The Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reduced our APBO by $516 at September 30, 2007 and $573 at September 30, 2006. These reductions/actuarial gains are amortized over the expected average future service of current employees.
            Assumptions          
          In 2005, we modified our method
of determining the discount rate so that the discount rate for each individual pension plan is determined separately based on the duration of each plan s liabilities. Previously, we determined a single discount rate for all our postretirement
benefit plans. We made the change mainly because of the divergence in the populations of our various plans due to employee transfers, layoffs and divestitures. The new method continues to include a matching of the plans  expected future benefit
payments against a yield curve that s based on high quality, non-callable bonds in the Bloomberg index as of the measurement date, omitting bonds with the ten percent highest and the ten percent lowest yields. The disclosed rate is the average
rate for all the plans, weighted by the projected benefit obligation. As of September 30, 2007, the weighted average was 6.20%, and the  
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

rates for individual plans ranged from 5.30% to 6.40%. As of September 30, 2006, the weighted average was 5.90%, and the rates for individual plans ranged from
5.00% to 6.00%.            The pension fund s expected return on assets
assumption is derived from an extensive study conducted by our Trust Investments group and its actuaries on a periodic basis. The study includes a review of actual historical returns achieved by the pension trust and anticipated future long-term
performance of individual asset classes with consideration given to the related investment strategy. While the study gives appropriate consideration to recent trust performance and historical returns, the assumption represents a long-term
prospective return. The expected return on plan assets determined on each measurement date is used to calculate the net periodic benefit cost/(income) for the upcoming plan year.         
          Assumed health care cost trend
rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. To determine the health care cost trend rates we look at a combination of information including ongoing claims cost monitoring, annual statistical analyses of claims
data, reconciliation of forecast claims against actual claims, review of trend assumptions of other plan sponsors and national health trends, and adjustments for plan design changes, workforce changes, and changes in plan participant behavior. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effect:         

Increase  
      
  Decrease  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  621  
      
  $  
  (545  
  )   
 
    Effect on total of service and interest cost   

59  

(55  
  )   

Plan Assets             Pension assets totaled $50,439 and $46,203 at September 30, 2007 and 2006. In
late 2006, the Company decided to modify the pension asset strategy with the objective of reducing volatility relative to pension liabilities, achieving a competitive investment return, achieving diversification between and within various asset
classes, and managing other risks. In order to reduce the volatility between the value of pension assets and liabilities, the Company increased its allocation to fixed income as well as lengthened the duration of its fixed income holdings. The
allocation to alternative investments, private equity, real estate, real assets, hedge funds, and global strategies, was also increased in order to address the return and diversification objectives. Key risk management areas addressed through this
modified strategy include funded status risk, interest rate risk, market risk, operational risk, and liquidity.            Actual investment allocations vary from target allocations due to periodic investment strategy changes and the length of time it takes to complete investments in asset classes such as private equity, real
estate, real assets, and other investments. Additionally, actual and target allocations vary due to the timing of benefit payments or contributions made on or near the measurement date.            Pension investment managers are retained with a specific investment role and corresponding investment guidelines. Investment managers
have the ability to purchase securities on behalf of the pension fund and invest in derivatives, such as equity or bond futures, swaps, options, or currency  
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

forwards. Derivatives generally are used to achieve the desired market exposure of a security or an index, transfer value-added performance between asset classes,
achieve the desired currency exposure, adjust portfolio duration, or rebalance the total portfolio to the target asset allocation.            The actual allocations for the pension assets at September 30, 2007 and 2006, and target allocations by asset category, are as follows:         
          Equity includes domestic and
international equity securities, such as common, preferred or other capital stock, as well as equity futures, currency forwards and residual cash allocated to the equity managers. Equity includes our common stock in the amounts of $0 (0% of plan
assets) and $1,260 (2.8% of plan assets) at September 30, 2007 and 2006. A currency management strategy was implemented during 2006 which uses currency forwards and options. Equity and currency management derivatives based on net notional
amounts totaled 1.9% and 6.6% of plan assets at September 30, 2007 and 2006.            Debt includes domestic and international debt securities, such as U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, corporate bonds; cash equivalents; and investments in bond derivatives such as bond futures, options, swaps and
currency forwards. Bond derivatives based on net notional amounts totaled 16.6% and 7.0% of plan assets at September 30, 2007 and 2006. Additionally, Debt includes  To-Be-Announced  mortgage-backed securities (TBA) and treasury
forwards which have delayed, future settlement dates. Debt included $2,478 and $1,770 related to TBA securities and treasury forwards at September 30, 2007 and 2006.       
     Private equity represents private market investments which are generally limited partnerships. Real estate includes investments in private and public
real estate. Real assets include investments in natural resources (such as energy and timber) and infrastructure. Hedge funds include event driven, relative value, long-short and market neutral strategies. Global strategies seek to identify
inefficiencies across various asset classes and markets, using long-short positions in physical securities and derivatives.            We held $96 and $89 in trust fund assets for OPB plans at September 30, 2007 and 2006. Most of these funds are invested in a balanced index fund which is
comprised of approximately 60% equities and 40% debt securities. The expected rate of return on these assets does not have a material effect on the net periodic benefit cost.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

    Cash Flows              Contributions  Required pension contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 are not
expected to be material in 2008. In the first quarter of 2008 we expect to make a discretionary contribution to our plans of $500 (pre-tax). We will evaluate additional contributions later in the year. We expect to contribute approximately $15 to
our OPB plans in 2008.             Estimated Future Benefit Payments  The
table below reflects the total pension benefits expected to be paid from the plans or from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants  share of the cost, which is funded by participant contributions. OPB
payments reflect our portion only.         
           Termination Provisions             Certain of the pension plans provide that, in the event there is a change in control
of the Company which is not approved by the Board of Directors and the plans are terminated within five years thereafter, the assets in the plan first will be used to provide the level of retirement benefits required by ERISA, and then any surplus
will be used to fund a trust to continue present and future payments under the postretirement medical and life insurance benefits in our group insurance benefit programs.       
     We have an agreement with the U.S. government with respect to certain pension plans. Under the agreement, should we terminate any of the plans under
conditions in which the plan s assets exceed that plan s obligations, the U.S. government will be entitled to a fair allocation of any of the plan s assets based on plan contributions that were reimbursed under U.S. government
contracts.             401(k) Plans             We provide certain defined contribution plans to all eligible employees. The principal
plans are the Company-sponsored 401(k) plans. The expense for these defined contribution plans was $536, $514 and $483 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.             Note 16   Share-Based Compensation and Other Compensation Arrangements               Share-Based Compensation              On May 1, 2006, the shareholders approved an amendment to The Boeing Company 2003 Incentive Stock Plan (2003 Plan). The 2003 Plan permits awards of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options,
restricted stock, stock units, Performance Shares, performance units and other incentives to our employees, officers, consultants and independent contractors. The aggregate number of shares of our stock available for issuance under the amended 2003
Plan will not exceed 60,000,000. Under the terms of the amended 2003 Plan, no more than an aggregate of 12,000,000 shares are available for issuance as restricted stock awards.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

   Our 1997 Incentive Stock Plan (1997 Plan) permits the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs) and
restricted stock awards (denominated in stock or stock units) to employees and contract employees. Under the terms of the plan, 64,000,000 shares are authorized for issuance upon exercise of options, as payment of SARs and as restricted stock
awards, of which no more than an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares are available for issuance as restricted stock awards. This authorization for issuance under the 1997 Plan terminated on April 30, 2007.            Shares issued as a result of stock option exercise or conversion of stock unit awards
will be funded out of treasury shares except to the extent there are insufficient treasury shares in which case new shares will be issued. We believe we currently have adequate treasury shares to meet any requirements to issue shares during 2008.
           Share-based plans expense is primarily included in general and
administrative expense since it is incentive compensation issued primarily to our executives. The share-based plans expense and related income tax benefit follow:         
           Adoption of SFAS No. 123R
            We early adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R as of
January 1, 2005 using the modified prospective method. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we recorded an increase in net earnings of $21, net of taxes of $12, as a cumulative effect of accounting change due to SFAS No. 123R s
requirement to apply an estimated forfeiture rate to unvested awards. Previously we expensed forfeitures as incurred. SFAS No. 123R also resulted in changes in our methods of measuring and amortizing compensation cost of our Performance Shares.
           For Performance Shares granted prior to 2005, share-based expense was
measured based on the market price of our stock on the award date and was generally amortized over a five-year period. For Performance Shares granted in 2005, the fair value of each award was measured on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo
simulation model. The Monte Carlo model also computed an expected term for each Performance Share. We changed our valuation method based on further clarification provided in SFAS No. 123R and the fact that our Performance Shares contain a
market condition, which should be reflected in the grant date fair value of an award. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying each market condition stipulated in the award
grant.            Additionally, prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we
amortized compensation cost for share-based awards over the stated vesting period for retirement eligible employees and, if an employee retired before the end of the vesting period, we recognized any remaining unrecognized compensation cost at the
date of retirement. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123R, for all share-based awards granted after January 1, 2005, we recognize compensation cost for retirement eligible employees over the greater of one year from the date of grant or
the period from the date of grant to the employee s retirement eligibility date (non-substantive vesting approach). Had we also applied the non-substantive vesting approach to awards granted prior to 2005, compensation expense would have been
$6, $50 and $96 lower for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Shares             Performance Shares are stock units that are convertible to common stock, on a one-to-one basis, contingent upon stock price performance. If, at any time up to five
years after award, the stock price reaches and maintains for twenty consecutive days a price equal to stated price growth targets, a stated percentage (up to 125%) of the Performance Shares awarded are vested and convertible to common stock.
           Cumulative stock price growth targets and vesting percentages for 2003,
2004 and 2005 awards follow:         
          Performance Shares not converted
to common stock expire five years after the date of the award. Awards may vest based on total shareholder return as follows:         

For 2005 award, up to 125% of the award may vest based on an award formula using the total shareholder return performance relative to the S P 100 and the five-year
Treasury Bill rate.               In the event a participant s
employment terminates due to retirement, layoff, disability, or death, the participant (or beneficiary) continues to participate in Performance Shares awards that have been outstanding for at least one year. In all other cases, participants forfeit
unvested awards if their employment terminates.            Performance Shares
activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 is as follows:         

1       
     Represents shares for awards greater than 100%                The following table provides additional information regarding potentially convertible
and converted or deferred Performance Shares.            (Shares in thousands)

92   

Table of Contents  

   The above tables do not include the maximum number of shares contingently issuable under the Plans. Additional
shares of 1,803,412 could be transferred in and converted or deferred if Performance Share vestings exceed 100%. Additionally, future deferred vestings that are eligible for the 25% matching contribution could result in the issuance of an additional
506,763 shares.            For years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
we recorded $54, $120 and $124, respectively, to accelerate the amortization of compensation cost for those Performance Shares converted to common stock or deferred as stock or cash at the employees  election.            As discussed above, Performance Shares granted in 2005 were measured on the date of
grant using a Monte Carlo model. Additionally, we began to remeasure certain Performance Shares that have a cash settlement feature as liability awards beginning September 30, 2005. Liability awards vesting and transferred into deferred
compensation plans totaled $48, $98 and $9 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The key assumptions used for valuing Performance Shares in 2006 and 2005 follow:         
          Weighted average expected
volatility is based on recent volatility levels implied by actively traded option contracts on our common stock and the historical volatility levels on our common stock. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments. Risk free
interest rate reflects the yield on the zero coupon U.S. Treasury based on the Performance Shares  remaining contractual term. Stock beta is a measure of how our stock price moves relative to the stock market as a whole. The fair value of the
2005 Performance Shares is amortized over the expected term of each award. The expected term of 1 to 4 years for each award granted is derived from the output of the valuation model and represents the median time required to satisfy the conditions
of the award, adjusted for the effect of retiree eligible participants. Each price growth target has a different expected term, resulting in the range of values provided.       
     At December 31, 2007, there was $22 of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Performance Share plan which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 0.1 years. In connection with Performance Shares that have not met the market conditions, we reclassified $288 from Additional paid-in capital to Other liabilities and recognized a cumulative adjustment to General
and administrative expense of $88 during 2005. Additionally, effective December 31, 2005, we modified our deferred stock compensation plan to require all Performance Shares that were unvested and deferred as stock units to be settled in stock.
        
   93   

Table of Contents  

    Stock options             Options have been granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. For
stock options issued prior to 2006, vesting is generally over a five-year service period with portions of a grant becoming exercisable at one year, three years and five years after the date of grant. In the event an employee has a termination of
employment due to retirement, layoff, disability or death, the employee (or beneficiary) immediately vests in grants that have been outstanding for at least one year.            On February 26, 2007 and February 27, 2006, we granted to our executives 5,334,700 and 6,361,100 options with an exercise
price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The stock options vest over a period of three years, with 34% vesting after the first year, 33% vesting after the second year and the remaining 33% vesting after the third year.
The options expire 10 years after the date of grant. If an executive terminates employment for any reason, the non-vested portion of the stock option will not vest and all rights to the non-vested portion will terminate completely. Stock options
granted during 2005 were not material.            The activity of stock options
issued to directors, officers, and other employees for the year ended December 31, 2007 is as follows:         
          The total intrinsic value of
options exercised was $192, $216 and $170 during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash received from options exercised for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $209, $294 and $348 with a
related tax benefit of $65, $52 and $59, respectively, derived from the compensation deductions resulting from these option exercises. At December 31, 2007, there was $125 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the Stock Option plan
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. The total fair value of stock options vested during the year ended December 31, 2007 was $43.            The fair value of stock-based compensation awards granted prior to 2006 were estimated using a binomial option-pricing model and the
2007 and 2006 awards granted were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:         
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

   For the stock option grants issued in 2007 and 2006, the expected volatility is based on a combination of our
historical stock volatility and the volatility levels implied on the grant date by actively traded option contracts on our common stock. We determined the expected term of the 2007 and 2006 stock option grants to be 6 years, calculated using the
 simplified  method in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 107,  Valuation of Share-Based Payment Arrangements for Public Companies . We used the  simplified  method since we changed the vesting terms, tax
treatment and the recipients of our stock options beginning in 2006 such that we believe our historical data no longer provides a reasonable basis upon which to estimate expected term.             Other stock unit awards             The total number of other stock unit awards that are convertible either to common stock or cash equivalents and are not contingent upon stock price were 1,997,763,
1,871,559 and 2,037,438 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            Liability award payments relating to Boeing Stock Units totaled $40, $57 and $32 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.             ShareValue Trust             The ShareValue Trust, established effective July 1, 1996, is a 14-year irrevocable trust that holds our common stock, receives dividends, and distributes to
employees the appreciation in value above a 3% per annum threshold rate of return at the end of each period. The total compensation expense to be recognized over the life of the trust was determined using a binomial option-pricing model and was
not affected by adoption of SFAS No.123R.            The Trust was split between
two funds,  fund 1  and  fund 2 , upon its initial funding. Each fund consists of investment periods which result in overlapping periods as follows:       
  
          An initial investment value is
established for each investment period based on the lesser of either (1) fair market value of the fund or (2) the prior ending balance of that fund. This amount is then compounded by the 3% per annum to determine the threshold amount
that must be met for that investment period. At the end of the investment period, the value of the investment in excess of the threshold amount will result in a distribution to participants. A distribution is proportionally distributed in the ratio
each participant s number of months of participation which relates to the total number of months earned by all participants in the investment period. At December 31, 2007, the Trust held 31,362,850 shares of our common stock in the two
funds.            Based on the average stock price of $82.285 as of June 30,
2006, the market value of fund 1 exceeded the threshold of $1,004 by $758. This excess was paid in Boeing common stock, except for partial shares and distributions to non-U.S. employees and beneficiaries of deceased participants, which were paid in
cash. After employee withholding taxes of $265, which were recorded as a liability in the second quarter of 2006 and were paid in the third quarter of 2006, 5.6 million shares of common  
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

stock were distributed to participants during the third quarter of 2006. These distributions were recorded as a deduction to Additional paid-in capital. In addition,
related employer payroll taxes of $59 were expensed in the second quarter of 2006.            If on June 30, 2008, the market value of fund 2 exceeds $1,028, the amount in excess of the threshold will be distributed to employees in shares of common stock. Similarly, if on June 30, 2010, the market value of
fund 1 exceeds $1,130, the amount in excess of the threshold will be distributed to employees in shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2007 the market values of Fund 1 and 2 were $1,094 and $1,658.            The ShareValue Trust is accounted for as a contra-equity account and stated at market
value. Market value adjustments are offset to Additional paid-in capital. At December 31, 2007, there was $180 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the ShareValue Trust which is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.5
years.              Other Compensation Arrangements               Performance Awards             Performance Awards are cash units that payout based on the achievement of long-term financial goals at the end of a three-year period.
Each unit has an initial value of $100 dollars. The amount payable at the end of the three-year performance period may be anywhere from zero to $200 dollars per unit, depending on the Company s performance against plan for a three-year period.
The Compensation Committee has the discretion to pay these awards in cash, stock, or a combination of both after the three-year performance period. Compensation expense, based on the estimated performance payout, is recognized ratably over the
performance period.            During the first quarter of 2006, we granted
Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the achievement of financial goals for the three-year period ending December 31, 2008. The minimum amount is zero and the maximum amount we could be required to payout for the 2006
Performance Awards is $252.            During the first quarter of 2007, we granted
Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the achievement of financial goals for the three-year period ending December 31, 2009. The minimum amount is zero and the maximum amount we could be required to payout for the 2007
Performance Awards is $282.             Deferred Stock Compensation             The Company has a deferred compensation plan which permits executives to defer receipt
of a portion of their salary, bonus, and certain other incentive awards. Prior to May 1, 2006, employees who participated in the deferred compensation plan could choose to defer in either an interest earning account or a Boeing stock unit
account. Effective May 1, 2006, participants can diversify deferred compensation among 19 investment funds including the interest earning account and the Boeing stock unit account.            Total expense related to deferred stock compensation was $51, $210 and $149 in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Additionally, for
employees who elected to defer their compensation in stock units prior to January 1, 2006, the Company matched 25% of the deferral with additional stock units. Upon retirement, the 25% match is settled in cash or stock; however, effective
January 1, 2006 all matching contributions are settled in stock. This modification resulted in no incremental compensation. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the deferred compensation liability which is being marked to market was $1,415
and $1,505.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

    Note 17   Shareholders  Equity             On August 28, 2006, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of $3,000 of common stock (the 2006 Program). On
October 29, 2007, the Board approved a new repurchase plan (the 2007 Program) for up to $7,000 of common stock that commenced following the completion of the 2006 Program. Unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution, the 2007 Program will
expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase. At December 31, 2007 $6,597 in shares may still be purchased under the 2007 Program.            As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were 1,200,000,000 common shared authorized. Twenty million shares of authorized preferred stock remain unissued.
            Changes in Share Balances             The following table shows changes in each class of shares:         
           Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  
           The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows:

97   

Table of Contents  

    Note 18   Derivative Financial Instruments              Cash flow hedges             Our cash flow hedges include certain interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts and commodity
purchase contracts. Interest rate swap contracts under which we agree to pay fixed rates of interest are designated as cash flow hedges of variable-rate debt obligations. We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage currency risk associated
with certain forecasted transactions, specifically sales and purchase commitments made in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency forward contracts hedge forecasted transactions principally occurring within five years in the future, with certain
contracts hedging transactions up to 2021. We use commodity derivatives, such as fixed-price purchase commitments, to hedge against potentially unfavorable price changes for items used in production. These include commitments to purchase electricity
at fixed prices through 2011.            For the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006, and 2005, gains of $24, $24, and $3, respectively, (net of tax) were reclassified to cost of products and services from Accumulated other comprehensive loss. In 2006, additional gains of $12 were reclassified from Accumulated other
comprehensive loss to Other income, net, as a result of discontinuance of cash flow hedge designation based on the probability that the original forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period. Such
reclassifications were not significant for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005. Ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges was insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.            At December 31, 2007 and 2006, net gains of $92 and $18 (net of tax) were recorded
in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated with our cash flow hedging transactions. Based on our current portfolio of cash flow hedges, we expect to reclassify to cost of products and services a gain of $64 (net of tax) during 2008.
            Fair value hedges             Interest rate swaps under which we agree to pay variable rates of interest are designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt. The
net change in fair value of the derivatives and the hedged items is reported in Interest and debt expense. Ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swaps was insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.            For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, $5, $8, and $12 of gains
related to the basis adjustment of certain terminated interest rate swaps were amortized to earnings.             Derivative financial instruments not receiving hedge accounting treatment             We also hold certain non-hedging instruments, such as interest exchange agreements, interest rate swaps, warrants, and foreign currency forward contracts. The changes in fair value of these instruments are
recorded in Other income, net. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, these non-hedging instruments resulted in net (losses)/gain of ($47), ($6), and $11, respectively.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Note 19   Significant Group Concentrations of Risk              Credit risk             Financial instruments involving potential credit risk are predominantly with commercial aircraft customers and the U.S. government. Of the $12,845 in Accounts
receivable, net and Customer financing, net included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2007, $6,927 related to commercial aircraft customers ($324 of Accounts receivable and $6,603 of Customer financing)
and $2,969 related to the U.S. government. Of the $6,603 of aircraft customer financing, $5,991 related to customers we believe have less than investment-grade credit. AirTran Airways, American Airlines and Midwest Airlines, Inc. were associated
with 23%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our aircraft financing portfolio. Financing for aircraft is collateralized by security in the related asset. As of December 31, 2007, there was $8,350 of financing commitments related to aircraft on order
including options and proposed as part of sales campaigns described in Note 13, of which $6,074 related to customers we believe have less than investment-grade credit.       
      Other risk             As of December 31, 2007, approximately 38% of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 32% of employees were represented by agreements expiring during 2008.
            Note 20   Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
        The carrying values and estimated fair values of our financial instruments were as
follows at December 31:         
          The fair values of the Accounts
receivable and Accounts payable is based on current market rates for loans of the same risk and maturities. The fair value of our debt is based on current market rates for debt of the same risk and maturities. The estimated fair value of our Other
liabilities balance at December 31, 2007 and 2006 approximates its carrying value.            Items not included in the above disclosures are cash, cash equivalents and investments. The estimated fair value of those items approximate their carrying value at December 31, 2007 and 2006 as reflected in Note 10. The
estimated fair value of our Investments at December 31, 2007 and 2006 approximate the carrying value. With regard to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of future financing
commitments because there is not a market for such future commitments.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

    Note 21   Legal Proceedings          
  Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts and other matters are pending against us. Many potentially significant legal
proceedings are related to matters covered by our insurance. Potential material contingencies are discussed below.            We are subject to various U.S. government investigations, from which civil, criminal or administrative proceedings could result or have resulted. Such proceedings involve, or could involve claims by the
government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or debarred from government
contracts, or lose its export privileges, based on the results of investigations. We believe, based upon current information, that the outcome of any such government disputes and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, except as set forth below.             A-12 litigation             In 1991, the U.S. Navy notified McDonnell Douglas Corporation (now one of our
subsidiaries) and General Dynamics Corporation (together, the Team) that it was terminating for default the Team s contract for development and initial production of the A-12 aircraft. The Team filed a legal action to contest the U.S.
Navy s default termination, to assert its rights to convert the termination to one  for the convenience of the government,  and to obtain payment for work done and costs incurred on the A-12 contract but not paid to date. As of
December 31, 2007, inventories included approximately $584 of recorded costs on the A-12 contract, against which we have established a loss provision of $350. The amount of the provision, which was established in 1990, was based on McDonnell
Douglas Corporation s belief, supported by an opinion of outside counsel, that the termination for default would be converted to a termination for convenience, and that the best estimate of possible loss on termination for convenience was $350.
           On August 31, 2001, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a
decision after trial upholding the government s default termination of the A-12 contract. In 2003, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, finding that the trial court had applied the wrong legal standard, vacated the trial court s
2001 decision and ordered the case sent back to that court for further proceedings. On May 3, 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision upholding the government s default termination of the A-12 contract. We believe that the
ruling raises serious issues for appeal, and on May 4, 2007 we filed a Notice of Appeal which we are now pursuing in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. This follows an earlier trial court decision in favor of the Team and reversal of
that initial decision on appeal.            If, after all judicial proceedings have
ended, the courts determine, contrary to our belief, that a termination for default was appropriate, we would incur an additional loss of approximately $275, consisting principally of remaining inventory costs and adjustments, and, if the courts
further hold that a money judgment should be entered against the Team, we would be required to pay the U.S. government one-half of the unliquidated progress payments of $1,350 plus statutory interest from February 1991 (currently totaling
approximately $1,350). In that event, our loss would total approximately $1,621 in pre-tax charges. Should, however, the March 31, 1998 judgment of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in favor of the Team be reinstated, we would be entitled to
receive payment of approximately $1,087, including interest.            We believe
that the termination for default is contrary to law and fact and that the loss provision established by McDonnell Douglas Corporation in 1990, which was supported by an opinion from outside counsel, continues to provide adequately for the reasonably
possible reduction in value of A-12  
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

net contracts in process as of December 31, 2007. Final resolution of the A-12 litigation will depend on the outcome of further proceedings or possible
negotiations with the U.S. government.             Employment and benefits litigation
            We are a defendant in two employment discrimination class actions.
In the Williams class action, which was filed on June 8, 1998 in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington (alleging race discrimination), we prevailed in a jury trial in December 2005, but plaintiffs appealed the pre-trial
dismissal of compensation claims in November 2005. In the Calender class action, which was filed January 25, 2005 in the U.S. Northern District of Illinois (a spin-off from Williams alleging race discrimination), plaintiffs dropped their
promotions claim on June 6, 2006, and put their compensation claims on hold pending the outcome of the Williams appeal.            In addition, on March 2, 2006, we were served with a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas, alleging that hiring decisions made
by Spirit Aerospace near the time of our sale of the Wichita facility were tainted by age discrimination and violated ERISA. The case is brought as a class action on behalf of individuals not hired by Spirit. We are indemnified by Spirit for all
claims relating to the 2005 sales transaction pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement with Spirit. Spirit has not agreed to indemnify us for one claim, which alleges that layoffs in Wichita from 2002   2005 were part of an overall
scheme to eliminate older workers and reduce the cost of benefits.            A
second alleged class action involving our sale of the Wichita facility to Spirit was filed on February 21, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas. The case is also brought under ERISA, and, in general, claims that we have
not properly provided benefits to certain categories of former employees affected by the sale .  Plaintiffs have been exhausting their administrative remedies by making appeals to our benefits committee; that phase of the case has been
completed, and it is expected that the case will move into the early stages of discovery.            On September 13, 2006, two UAW Local 1069 retirees filed a class action lawsuit in the Middle District of Tennessee alleging that recently announced changes to medical plans for retirees of UAW Local 1069
constituted a breach of collective bargaining agreements under  301 of the Labor-Management Relations Act and  502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA. On September 15, 2006, we filed a lawsuit in the Northern District of Illinois against the
International UAW and two retiree medical plan participants seeking a declaratory judgment confirming that the Company has the legal right to make changes to these medical benefits. On June 4, 2007, the Middle District of Tennessee ordered that
its case be transferred to the Northern District of Illinois. The two cases were consolidated on September 24, 2007. The UAW filed a Motion to file a Second Amended Complaint on October 26, 2007 in which it sought to drop the
retirees  claim for vested lifetime benefits based on successive collective bargaining agreements and instead allege that the current collective bargaining agreement is the sole alleged source of rights to retiree medical benefits. We opposed
the motion. On January 17, 2008, the court granted the motion to amend the complaint on the condition that the lifetime retiree benefits claims are to be dismissed with prejudice. The plaintiff s counsel is now considering whether to
accept the condition or withdraw the amended complaint. In addition, both parties filed Motions for Class Certification on November 16, 2007. It is not possible at this time to determine whether an adverse outcome would have a material adverse
effect on our financial position.            On October 13, 2006, we were
named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. Plaintiffs, seeking to represent a class of similarly situated participants and beneficiaries in the Boeing Company Voluntary Investment Plan
(the VIP Plan), alleged that fees and expenses incurred by the VIP Plan were and are unreasonable and excessive, not incurred solely for the benefit of the VIP Plan and its participants, and were undisclosed to participants. The plaintiffs further
alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary duties in violation of  502(a)(2) of ERISA, and  
       
   101   

Table of Contents  

sought injunctive and equitable relief pursuant to  502(a)(3) of ERISA. Plaintiffs have filed a motion to certify the class, which we have opposed. On
September 10, 2007, the court issued an order staying class certification pending resolution by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of  Lively v. Dynegy, Inc.  On December 14, 2007, the court granted plaintiffs leave to
file an amended complaint, which complaint added our Employee Benefits Investment Committee as a defendant and included new allegations regarding alleged breach of fiduciary duty. It is not possible at this time to determine whether an adverse
outcome would have a material adverse effect on our financial position.             BSSI/ICO
litigation             On August 16, 2004, Boeing Satellite Systems
International, Inc. (BSSI) filed a complaint for declaratory relief against ICO Global Communications (Operations), Ltd. (ICO) in Los Angeles County Superior Court. BSSI s suit seeks a declaration that ICO s prior termination of two
contracts for convenience extinguished all claims between the parties. On September 16, 2004, ICO filed a cross - complaint alleging breach of contract, economic duress, fraud, unfair competition, and other claims. ICO added us as a
defendant in October 2005 to some of these claims and also sued us for interference with contract and misappropriation of trade secrets. On January 13, 2006, BSSI filed a cross-complaint against ICO, ICO Global Communications (Holdings) Limited
(ICO Holdings), ICO s parent, and Eagle River Investments, LLC, parent of both ICO and ICO Holdings, alleging fraud and other claims. In its claims, ICO seeks to recover damages significantly in excess of the $2,400 contract price. More
specifically, ICO seeks to recover all monies paid to BSSI and Boeing Launch Services; the costs it incurred in shutting down certain aspects of its business; substantial damages for alleged diminution in the value of its business; and other
unspecified damages and relief. We believe that we have defenses to ICO s causes of action and damage claims and are pursuing our own claims. Trial is set for April 2008.             BSSI/Thuraya litigation             On September 10, 2004, a group of insurance underwriters for Thuraya Satellite Telecommunications (Thuraya) requested arbitration before the International
Chamber of Commerce (ICC) against BSSI. The Request for Arbitration alleges that BSSI breached its contract with Thuraya for sale of a model 702 satellite that experienced power loss anomalies. The arbitration hearing has been scheduled for April
2008 and the arbitration decision is expected to be issued later in 2008. The claimants seek approximately $199 (plus claims of interest, costs and fees) consisting of insurance payments made to Thuraya, and they further reserved the right to seek
an additional $38 that has been in dispute between Thuraya and some insurers and was reportedly recently resolved. Thuraya has reserved its rights to seek uninsured losses that could increase the total amount disputed to $365. We believe these
claims lack merit and intend to vigorously defend against them.            We have
insurance coverage to respond to this arbitration request and have notified responsible insurers. On May 26, 2006, a group of these insurers filed a declaratory judgment action in the Circuit Court of Cook County asserting certain defenses to
coverage and requesting a declaration of their obligation under our insurance and reinsurance policies relating to the Thuraya ICC arbitration. We believe the insurers  position lacks merit. On May 25, 2007, the court stayed further
proceedings in the coverage action pending completion of the arbitration but insurers have appealed that order.             BSSI/Telesat Canada             On November 9, 2006, Telesat Canada (Telesat) and a group of its insurers served BSSI with an arbitration demand alleging breach of contract, gross negligence and willful misconduct in connection with
the constructive total loss of Anik F1, a model 702 satellite manufactured by BSSI. Telesat and its  
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

insurers seek over $385 in damages and $10 in lost profits. We believe that the claims asserted by Telesat and its insurers lack merit but have nonetheless notified
our insurance carriers of the demand.            On April 26, 2007, a group of
our insurers filed a declaratory judgment action in the Circuit Court of Cook County asserting certain defenses to coverage and requesting a declaration of their obligation under our insurance and reinsurance policies relating to the threatened
Telesat Anik F1 arbitration. We believe the insurers  position lacks merit and intend to vigorously litigate the coverage issue.             BSSI/Superbird-6 litigation             On December 1, 2006, BSSI was served with an arbitration demand in subrogation brought by insurers for Space Communications Corporation alleging breach of warranty, breach of contract and gross
negligence relating to the Superbird-6 communications satellite, which suffered a low perigee event shortly after launch in April 2004. The low orbit allegedly damaged the satellite, and a subsequent decision to de-orbit the satellite was made less
than 12 months after launch. The model 601 satellite was manufactured by BSSI and delivered for launch by International Launch Services on an Atlas launch vehicle. The insurers seek to recover in excess of $240 from BSSI. We believe the
insurers  claims lack merit and intend to vigorously defend against them. The arbitration hearing is scheduled to begin in October 2008.             Note 22   Segment Information             We operate in five principal segments: Commercial Airplanes; Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems,
Network and Space Systems, and Support Systems, collectively IDS; and BCC. All other activities fall within the Other segment, principally made up of Engineering, Operations and Technology, Connexion by Boeing  SM    and our Shared Services Group. On August 17, 2006, we announced that we would exit the Connexion by Boeing  SM   
high speed broadband communications business having completed a detailed business and market analysis. See Note 7. See page 52 for Summary of Business Segment Data, which is an integral part of this note.              Our Commercial Airplanes operation principally involves development, production and
marketing of commercial jet aircraft and providing related support services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide.            Our IDS operations principally involve research, development, production, modification and support of the following products and related systems: military aircraft,
both land-based and aircraft-carrier-based, including fighter, transport and attack aircraft with wide mission capability, and vertical/short takeoff and landing capability; helicopters and missiles, space systems, missile defense systems,
satellites and satellite launching vehicles, and information and battle management systems. Although some IDS products are contracted in the commercial environment, the primary customer is the U.S. government.            Our Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems segment programs include AH-64 Apache,
CH-47 Chinook, C-17, EA-18G, F/A-18E/F, F-15, F-22, Joint Direct Attack Munition, P-8A Poseidon, Small Diameter Bomb, V-22 Osprey, 737 Airborne Early Warning and Control, and 767 Tanker.            Our Network and Space Systems segment programs include Future Combat Systems, Joint Tactical Radio System, and Family of Beyond
Line-of-Sight Terminals, which are helping our military customers network enable their operations; Future Rapid Effects Systems and SBInet, which provide integrated intelligence and security solutions; launch exploration and satellite products and
services including the Space Shuttle, International Space Station, Ares, and Delta launch services; and missile defense programs including Ground-based Midcourse Defense and Airborne Laser. Also included are military satellite programs and
Proprietary programs.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

   Our Support Systems segment programs include Integrated Logistics (AH-64 Apache, C-17, CH-47 Chinook, E-6, F/A-18),
Maintenance, Modifications and Upgrades (B-52, C-130 Avionics Modernization Program, KC-10, KC-135, T-38), and Training Systems and Services (AH-64 Apache, C-17, F/A-18, F-15, T-45).            Effective January 1, 2007, the B-1 bomber program (formerly included in Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems) and
certain Boeing Australia Limited programs (formerly included in Network and Space Systems) are included in Support Systems. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment.            Our BCC segment is primarily engaged in supporting our major operating units by
facilitating, arranging, structuring and providing selective financing solutions to our customers and managing our overall financial exposures.            Engineering, Operations and Technology is an advanced research and development organization focused on innovative technologies, improved processes and the creation
of new products. Financing activities other than BCC, consisting principally of four C-17 transport aircraft under lease to the UKRAF, are included within the Other segment classification.            While our principal operations are in the United States, Canada, and Australia, some
key suppliers and subcontractors are located in Europe and Japan. Revenues by geographic area consisted of the following:         
          Commercial Airplanes segment
revenues were approximately 79%, 73% and 76% of total revenues in Europe and approximately 87%, 80% and 80% of total revenues in Asia, excluding China, for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. IDS revenues were approximately 16%, 22% and 20% of total
revenues in Europe and approximately 12%, 20% and 19% of total revenues in Asia, excluding China, for 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. IDS revenues from the U.S. government represented 42%, 46% and 51% of consolidated revenues for 2007, 2006 and
2005. Approximately 13% of operating assets are located outside the United States.            The information in the following tables is derived directly from the segments  internal financial reporting used for corporate management purposes.         
   104   

Table of Contents  

    Research and development expense          
 
           Depreciation and amortization          
          We recorded earnings from
operations associated with our equity method investments of $100, $50, and $0 in our Commercial Airplanes segment and $87, $96, and $88 primarily in our N SS segment for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
           For segment reporting purposes, we record Commercial Airplanes segment
revenues and cost of sales for airplanes transferred to other segments. Such transfers may include airplanes accounted for as operating leases and considered transferred to the BCC segment and airplanes transferred to the IDS segment for further
modification prior to delivery to the customer. The revenues and cost of sales for these transfers are eliminated in the Accounting differences/eliminations caption. In the event an airplane accounted for as an operating lease is subsequently sold,
the  Accounting differences/eliminations  caption would reflect the recognition of revenue and cost of sales on the consolidated financial statements. For segment reporting purposes, we record IDS revenues and cost of sales for the
modification performed on airplanes received from Commercial Airplanes when the airplane is delivered to the customer or at the attainment of performance milestones.            Intersegment revenues, eliminated in Accounting differences/eliminations are shown in the following table.         
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

    Unallocated expense             Unallocated expense includes costs not attributable to business segments. Unallocated expense also includes the impact of cost measurement differences between
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and federal cost accounting standards as well as intercompany profit eliminations. The most significant items not allocated to segments are shown in the following table.
        
          Unallocated assets primarily
consist of cash and investments, prepaid pension expense, net deferred tax assets, capitalized interest and assets held by our Shared Services Group as well as intercompany eliminations. Unallocated liabilities include various accrued employee
compensation and benefit liabilities, including accrued retiree health care, net deferred tax liabilities and income taxes payable. Debentures and notes payable are not allocated to other business segments except for the portion related to BCC.
Unallocated capital expenditures relate primarily to Shared Services Group assets and segment assets managed by Shared Services Group, primarily IDS.            Segment assets, liabilities, capital expenditures and backlog are summarized in the tables below.             Assets          
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

    Liabilities          
           Capital expenditures          
           Contractual backlog (unaudited)

107   

Table of Contents  

    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)          
          During the second and fourth
quarters of 2006, we recorded charges of $496 and $274 on our international Airborne Early Warning and Control program in our PE MS segment. During the third and fourth quarters of 2006, we recorded charges of $280 and $40 due to exiting the
Connexion by Boeing business. During the second quarter of 2006, we recorded a charge of $571 as part of the global settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company
     Chicago, Illinois            We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)
2. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
           We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.            In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.            As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) , which changed its method of accounting for pension and postretirement
benefits as of December 31, 2006.            We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 13, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP            Chicago, Illinois      February 13, 2008         
   109   

Table of Contents  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure             None.             
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures          

(a)  
     
    Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.               Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007 and have concluded that
these disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. These disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or
submit is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.         

(b)  
     
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting               Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation under the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2007.            Our internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2007, has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.         

(c)  
     
    Changes in internal controls.               There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2007 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.             
  Item 9B. Other Information             None
        
   110   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company      Chicago, Illinois         
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2007,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be
prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control
  Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2007 of the Company and our report dated February 13, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP            Chicago, Illinois      February 13, 2008         
   111   

Table of Contents  

    PART III              
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance             Certain information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Election of Directors  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference herein. The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference herein.             Codes of Ethics.             We have adopted: (1) The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for the
Board of Directors; (2) The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees which is applicable to our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Controller and all finance employees; and (3) The Boeing Code of Conduct that applies to all
employees, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), (collectively, the Codes of Conduct). The Codes of Conduct are posted on our website, www.boeing.com. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers of, the Codes of Conduct
covering our CEO, CFO and/or Controller promptly following the date of such amendments or waivers. A copy of the Codes of Conduct may be obtained upon request, without charge, by contacting our Office of Internal Governance at 888-970-7171 or by
writing to us at The Boeing Company, 100 N. Riverside, Chicago, IL, 60606, Attn: Senior Vice President, Office of Internal Governance. The information contained or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on
Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any reported filed with the SEC.            No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers, directors or director nominees.            A listing of and certain information about our executive officers as of February 8, 2008 is included in Item 4 of Part I, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.            There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may
recommend nominees to our board of directors.            The information required
by Item 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Audit Committee  in the section entitled  Committee Membership  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference herein.             
  Item 11. Executive Compensation             The
information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Compensation of Executive Officers  and  Director Compensation  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference herein.            The information required by Item 407(e)(4) and
(e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference herein.             
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters             The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers 
and  Security Ownership of More Than 5% Shareholders  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   112   

Table of Contents  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information             We currently maintain two equity compensation plans that provide for the issuance of common stock to officers and other employees,
directors and consultants. Each of these compensation plans was approved by our shareholders. The following table sets forth information regarding outstanding options and shares available for future issuance under these plans as of December 31,
2007:         

1       
     
     Excludes additional shares of 1,803,412 which could be transferred in and converted or deferred if
Performance share vestings exceed 100% and additional shares of 506,763 which could be issued for future deferred vestings that are eligible for the 25% matching contribution.       

2       
     
     Excludes the potential performance awards which the Compensation Committee has the discretion to
pay in cash, stock or a combination of both after the three-year performance periods in 2009 and 2010.                For further information, refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.             
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence             The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Transactions with Related Persons  in the 2008 Proxy
Statement, and the information is incorporated by reference herein.            The
information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Board Membership and Director Independence  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and the information is incorporated by reference herein.             
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services             The information required by Item 14 will be included under the caption  Independent Auditors Fees Report  in the 2008 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   113   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV              
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

(a)   
     
     List of documents filed as part of this report:             

1.   
     
     Financial Statements                Our consolidated financial statements are as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K.         

2.   
     
     Financial Statement Schedules             

Schedule    
      
     Description    
      
   Page    
 
    II   
      
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  
      
  120   
          The
auditors  report with respect to the above-listed financial statement schedule appears on page 109 of this report. All other financial statements and schedules not listed are omitted either because they are not applicable, not required, or the
required information is included in the consolidated financial statements.         

(2)  
     
    Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement, Liquidation or Succession.            

(3)  
     
    Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.            

(4)  
     
    Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures.          

The Boeing Company Bank Credit Agreements.            

(i)  
     
    U.S. $1.0 Billion 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as syndication
agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent for such Lenders.            
   114   

Table of Contents  

(ii)  
     
    U.S. $2.0 Billion Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as syndicated
agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent for such Lenders.            

(iii)  
     
    Joint Venture Master Agreement by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and a Delaware LLC, dated as of May 2, 2005 (Exhibit (10)(i) to
the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.)            

(iv)  
     
    Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005 by and between The Boeing Company and Mid-Western Aircraft Systems, Inc. (Exhibit (10)(i) to the
Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.)            

Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans            

(vi)  
     
    1992 Stock Option Plan for Nonemployee Directors.            

(vii)  
     
    Supplemental Benefit Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10)(iii) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007.)            

(ix)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.1 to the Company s Current Report on
Form 8-K) dated October 28, 2007.)            

(x)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of The Boeing Company, as amended on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10)(ii) (Management Contracts) to the Company s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007.)            
   115   

Table of Contents  

(b)  
     
    Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant.            

(xii)  
     
    Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees of the Company and Subsidiaries, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.7) to the Company s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007.)            

(xxiii)  
     
    Stock Purchase and Restriction Agreement dated as of July 1, 1996, between The Boeing Company and Wachovia Bank of North Carolina, N.A. as Trustee, under the
ShareValue Trust Agreement dated as of July 1, 1996. (Exhibit 10.20 to the Form S-4.)            
   116   

Table of Contents  

(xxvi)  
     
    The Boeing Company Executive Layoff Benefits Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.9) to the Company s Current Report on Form
8-K dated October 28, 2007.)            

(12)  
     
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.            

(i)  
     
    The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for Member of the Board of Directors (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).            

(ii)  
     
    The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).            

(iii)  
     
    The Boeing Company Code of Conduct (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).            

(21)  
     
    List of Company Subsidiaries.            

(23)  
     
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in connection with filings on Form S-8 and on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933.

(i)  
     
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.            

(ii)  
     
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.            

(i)  
     
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.            

(ii)  
     
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.            
   117   

Table of Contents  

(99)  
     
    Additional Exhibits            

(ii)  
     
    Post-Merger Combined Statements of Operations and Financial Position. (Exhibit (99)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.)
           
   118   

Table of Contents  

Signatures             Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the date indicated.             THE BOEING COMPANY        (Registrant)          

By:   
     
    / S /    W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY ,
J R .           

By:   
     
    / S /    J AMES  A.
B ELL             

W. James McNerney, Jr.   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

James A. Bell   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

By:  
     
    / S /    H ARRY  S. M C G EE 
III           

Harry S. McGee III   Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller  

Date: February 14, 2008
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.         

/ S /    J OHN  H.
B IGGS              John H. Biggs   Director   
      
    / S /    J AMES  L.
J ONES              James L. Jones   Director    

/ S /    J OHN  E.
B RYSON              John E. Bryson   Director   
      
    / S /    E DWARD  M.
L IDDY              Edward M. Liddy   Director    

/ S /    A RTHUR  D.
C OLLINS              Arthur D. Collins   Director   
      
    / S /    J OHN  F.
M C D ONNELL              John F. McDonnell   Director    

/ S /    L INDA  Z.
C OOK              Linda Z. Cook   Director   
      
    / S /    W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY ,
J R .             W. James McNerney, Jr.   Director    

/ S /    W ILLIAM  M.
D ALEY              William M. Daley   Director   
      
    / S /    R OZANNE  L.
R IDGWAY              Rozanne L. Ridgway   Director    

/ S /    K ENNETH  M.
D UBERSTEIN              Kenneth M. Duberstein   Director   
      
    / S /    M IKE  S.
Z AFIROVSKI              Mike S. Zafirovski   Director    
       
   119   

Table of Contents  

SCHEDULE II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts              The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries             Allowance for Customer Financing and Other Assets      (Deducted from assets to which they apply)            (Dollars in millions)         
           
  EXHIBIT (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges              The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries       (Dollars in millions)         

(1)       
     
     Amount does not include tax-related interest expense which is reported as a component of Income tax
expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.             
   120   

<EX-10.I>
 2
 dex10i.htm
 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT

364-Day Credit Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10(i)        THE BOEING COMPANY        364-DAY        CREDIT AGREEMENT       among      THE BOEING COMPANY      for itself and on behalf of its Subsidiaries,      as a Borrower      THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO
     CITIBANK, N.A.,      as
Administrative Agent      JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.      as Syndication Agent      and      CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.      and      J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.,      as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers
     dated as of November 16, 2007   

TABLE OF CONTENTS         
       
   i   

ii   

Exhibit A-1   
      
  -  
        
  Committed Note   
 
    Exhibit A-2   
      
  -  
        
  Bid Note   
 
    Exhibit B-1   
      
  -  
        
  Notice of Committed Borrowing   
 
    Exhibit B-2   
      
  -  
        
  Notice of Bid Borrowing   
 
    Exhibit C   
      
  -  
        
  Request for Alteration   
 
    Exhibit D   
      
  -  
        
  Borrower Subsidiary Letter   
 
    Exhibit E   
      
  -  
        
  Extension Request   
 
    Exhibit F   
      
  -  
        
  Continuation Notice   
 
    Exhibit G   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel of the Company   
 
    Exhibit H   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel for Agent   
 
    Exhibit I   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of in-house counsel to Subsidiary Borrower   
 
    Exhibit J   
      
  -  
        
  Guaranty of TBC   
 
    Exhibit K   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel to TBC   

Schedule I   
      
  -  
        
  Commitments   
       
   iii   

CREDIT AGREEMENT       Dated as of November 16, 2007      THE BOEING COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (  TBC   or the
  Company  ), for itself and on behalf of the other BORROWERS (as defined below), the LENDERS (as defined below), CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, JPMORGAN
CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent, and CITIBANK, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the   Agent  ), agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1        Definitions        

1.1  
   Definitions  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the respective meanings set out below:          2006 Credit Agreement   means the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2006, by and among TBC, Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, and certain other banks as lenders.        Advance   means a Committed Advance or a Bid Advance.        Agent   means Citibank, N.A. acting in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders, or any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to
Section 7.6.        Agent s Account   means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent with Citibank, N.A., at its office at 388
Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications.        Affiliate   means, as to any Person, any
other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. (For purposes of this definition, the term  controls ,  controlling ,
 controlled by  and  under common control with  mean, with respect to a Person, the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract, or otherwise.)        Agreement   means this
agreement, as it may be amended or otherwise modified from time to time, and any written additions or supplements hereto.        Applicable Lending
Office   means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender s Domestic Lending Office, in the case of a Base Rate Advance, and such Lender s Eurodollar Lending Office, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, and, in the case of a
Bid Advance, the office of such Lender specified by such Lender in a notice to the Agent as its Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Bid Advance.        Applicable Margin   means,       

(i)  
  with respect to Base Rate Advances, 0% per annum; and     

(ii)  
  with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances for any date, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the then-applicable rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating
of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:         
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the two ratings at the same level, (ii) two
of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the ratings are at the same
level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall within different levels, then
the Applicable Margin will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in writing by the Majority
Lenders, the Applicable Margin for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such ratings becoming
unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use good faith efforts to reach such
agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Margin thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be (a) if any such rating has
become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Applicable Margin as set forth under Level VI
above.         
   2   

Applicable Percentage   means, for any date, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the then-applicable
rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:       

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Percentage   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.030  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.035  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.040  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.060  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.100  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the two ratings at the same level,
(ii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the
ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall
within different levels, then the Applicable Percentage will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in
writing by the Majority Lenders, the Applicable Percentage for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Percentage in effect immediately prior to
such ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use good faith
efforts to reach such agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Percentage thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be
(a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Percentage in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Applicable
Percentage as set forth under Level VI above.        Applicable Utilization Fee   means, for any date that the aggregate principal amount of
outstanding Advances exceed 50% of the aggregate Commitments, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the then-applicable rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:
        
   3   

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Utilization Fee   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.100  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the two ratings at the same level,
(ii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the
ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall
within different levels, then the Applicable Utilization Fee will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in
writing by the Majority Lenders, the Applicable Utilization Fee for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Utilization Fee in effect immediately
prior to such ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use
good faith efforts to reach such agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Utilization Fee thereafter, until such agreement is reached,
shall be (a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Utilization Fee in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise,
the Applicable Utilization Fee as set forth under Level VI above.        Available Commitments   means, as of any date of determination,
(a) the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders, as such amount may be reduced, changed or terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, reduced by (b) the aggregate Advances outstanding on such date of determination.   
    Base Rate   means the higher of (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank, N.A., in New York City, from time to time, as
Citibank s  base  rate and (b) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% per annum.         
   4   

Base Rate Advance   means a Committed Advance which bears interest at the Base Rate.        Bid Advance   means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Bid Borrowing resulting from the auction bidding procedure described in
Section 2.5, and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, each of which shall be a  Type  of Bid Advance.        Bid Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offers to make one or more Bid Advances as part of such borrowing has been accepted by a Borrower under the auction
bidding procedure described in Section 2.5.        Bid Note   means a promissory note of a Borrower payable to the order of a Lender, in
substantially the form of Exhibit A-2, evidencing the indebtedness of that Borrower to such Lender resulting from a Bid Advance made by such Lender to such Borrower.        Bid Reduction   has the meaning specified in Section 2.1(a).        Borrower   means,
individually and collectively, as the context requires, TBC and each Subsidiary Borrower (unless and until it becomes a  Terminated Subsidiary Borrower  pursuant to Section 2.22).        Borrower Subsidiary Letter   means, with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower, a letter in the form of Exhibit D, signed by such Subsidiary Borrower and
TBC.        Borrowing   means a Committed Borrowing or a Bid Borrowing.        Business Day   means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advance, on which
dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.        Commitment   means, for each Lender, the full amount set forth opposite the name
of such Lender in Schedule I or, if such Lender is a Replacement Lender or a Lender that has entered into one or more assignments pursuant to Section 2.20 or Section 2.21, the amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by
the Agent pursuant to Section 2.20(d), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.3, Section 2.8 or Section 2.19 or increased pursuant to Section 2.19.        Committed Advance   means an advance made by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Committed Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance, each of which is a
 Type  of Committed Advance.        Committed Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Advances of the same
Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.1.        Committed Note   means a promissory note of a Borrower payable to the
order of any Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1, evidencing the indebtedness of that Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Committed Advances made by such Lender to that Borrower.        Company   means The Boeing Company, a Delaware corporation.        Confidential Information   means information that a Borrower furnishes to the Agent or any Lender in a writing designated as confidential, but does not include any such information that is or becomes generally available to
the public or that is or becomes available to the Agent or such Lender from a source other than a Borrower.         
   5   

Consolidated   refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.        Consolidated Net Tangible Assets   means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible
items) after, deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount
thereof is being computed), and (ii) all good will, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expenses and other like intangibles, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated
Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.        Continuing Lender   has the meaning specified in
Section 2.21(a).        Convert  ,   Conversion   and   Converted   each means a conversion of Committed
Advances of one Type into Committed Advances of another Type pursuant to Section 2.10, 2.11 or 2.15.        Debt   of a Person means

(i)  
  indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services;         

(ii)  
  financial obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments;         

(iii)  
  financial obligations as lessee under leases which have been or should be, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, recorded as capital leases; and

(iv)  
  obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against
loss in respect of, indebtedness or financial obligations of others of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) above.          Default   means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.        Domestic Lending Office   means with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its  Domestic Lending Office  opposite its name on Schedule I, or in the assignment or
other agreement pursuant to which it became a Lender or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to TBC and the Agent.        Effective Date   has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(d).        Eligible Assignee   means       

(i)  
  a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any state thereof, and having a combined capital and surplus in excess of $3,000,000,000;

(ii)  
  a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the OECD, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having a combined capital and
surplus in excess of $3,000,000,000,  provided  that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in either (a) the country in which it is organized or (b) another country which is also a member of the OECD or the Cayman
Islands;           
   6   

(iii)  
  the central bank of any country which is a member of the OECD;         

(iv)  
  any Lender;         

(v)  
  an Affiliate of any Lender; or         

(vi)  
  any other Person approved in writing, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, by TBC, which approval has been communicated in writing to the Agent,
 provided  that neither TBC nor an Affiliate of TBC shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.          ERISA   means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.        Eurocurrency
Liabilities   has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.        Eurodollar Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, (a) the office of such Lender specified as its  Eurodollar Lending Office  opposite its name on Schedule I (or, if no such
office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or in the assignment or other agreement pursuant to which it became a Lender or (b) such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to TBC and the Agent.
       Eurodollar Rate   means, for an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance constituting part of a Committed Borrowing, and
for the relevant period specified in the applicable Notice of Bid Borrowing for a Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, an interest rate per annum equal to either       

(a)  
  the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (  BBA LIBOR  ), as published by Reuters (or, if unavailable for any reason by Reuters, then by
reference to another commercially available source providing quotations the British Banks Association LIBOR Rate, such as Bloomberg,) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period substantially equal to such Interest Period (if a Committed Advance) or
such relevant period specified in the applicable Notice of Bid Borrowing (if a Bid Advance), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two business days before the first day of such Interest Period or the first day of the relevant period specified in such
Notice of Bid Borrowing; or         

(b)  
  if the foregoing rate is unavailable for any reason, the average (rounded to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the
rates per annum offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on deposits in U.S. dollars two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period or
the first day of such relevant period specified in the Notice of Bid Borrowing         

(i)  
  for such Eurodollar Committed Advance, on an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank s Eurodollar Rate Advance constituting part of such Committed Borrowing and for a
period equal to such Interest Period, or         

(ii)  
  for such Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, on an amount substantially equal to the amount of the Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing which includes such Bid Advance multiplied by a fraction
equal to such Reference Bank s ratable portion of the Commitments and for a period equal to the relevant period specified in such Notice of Bid Borrowing.           
   7   

The Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance constituting part
of the same Borrowing and for the relevant period specified in a Notice of Bid Borrowing for each Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference
Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period or period, as the case may be,  subject ,  however , to the provisions of Section 2.10.        Eurodollar Rate Advance   means a Committed Advance (a   Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance  ) or a Bid Advance (a   Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance  ) which bears interest at
a rate of interest quoted as a margin (which shall be the Applicable Margin in the case of a Committed Advance or as offered by a Lender and accepted by a Borrower in the case of a Bid Advance) over the Eurodollar Rate.        Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(b).        Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage   means the reserve percentage applicable to a Lender for any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Advance during such Interest Period (or if more than one such
percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets
consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest
Period.        Event of Default   means any of the events described in Section 6.1.        Extension Request   has the meaning specified in Section 2.21.        Facility Fee   has the meaning specified in Section 2.7.        Federal Funds Rate  
means, for each day during a period, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the fluctuating rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published
for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for
such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.        Fitch   means
Fitch, Inc.        Fixed Rate Advance   means an Advance made by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Fixed Rate Borrowing.        Fixed Rate Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(b).        Guaranty   means each Guaranty Agreement executed by TBC in favor of the Agent and the Lenders, unconditionally guaranteeing the payment of all obligations of a Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under
any Notes executed or to be executed by it.        Indemnified Costs   has the meaning specified in Section 7.5.         
   8   

Indemnified Party   has the meaning specified in Section 8.3(b).        Interest Period   means, for each Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance constituting part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such
Committed Advance or the date of the Conversion of a Base Rate Advance into such a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the applicable Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each
subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one,
two, three, or six months (or nine months, with the consent of all Lenders funding those particular Advances), as the applicable Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day
prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select,  provided ,  however , that:       

(i)  
  no Interest Period shall end on a date later than the Termination Date (or in the case of a Committed Advance which is converted to a Term Loan pursuant to Section 2.3, the
Maturity Date);         

(ii)  
  Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Committed Advances constituting part of the same Committed Borrowing shall be of the same duration; and         

(iii)  
  whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next
succeeding Business Day,  provided  that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of the Interest Period shall occur on the immediately preceding Business
Day.          Lender  , subject to Section 2.20, means any of the institutions that is a signatory hereto or that, pursuant to
Section 2.13, 2.19, 2.20 or 2.21, becomes a  Lender  hereunder.        Majority Lenders   means Lenders holding greater than 50%
of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances or, if no Advances are outstanding, Lenders having greater than 50% of the total Commitments.        Maturity Date   means the Termination Date or, if the Term Loan Conversion Option described in Section 2.3 has been exercised, the date that is the one-year anniversary of the Termination Date.        Moody s   means Moody s Investor Services, Inc.        Non-Extending Lender   has the meaning specified in Section 2.21(a).        Note   means a Committed Note or a
Bid Note.        Notice of Bid Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(b).        Notice of Borrowing   means a Notice of Committed Borrowing or a Notice of Bid Borrowing.        Notice of Committed Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a).        OECD  
means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.         
   9   

Person   means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), limited liability
company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.        Property, Plant and Equipment   means any item of real property, or any interest therein, buildings, improvements and machinery.        Proposed Increased Commitment   has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(c).        Reference Banks   means
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., and Deutsche Bank AG.        Register   has the meaning specified in
Section 2.20(d).        Replacement Lenders   has the meaning specified in Section 2.21(c).        Request for Alteration   means a document substantially in the form of Exhibit C, duly executed by TBC, pursuant to Section 2.19.        Required Assignment   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(a).        S P   means Standard   Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.        Subsidiary   means any Person in which more than 50% of the Voting Stock or the interest in the capital or profits is owned by TBC, by TBC and any one or more other Subsidiaries, or by any one or more other Subsidiaries.
       Subsidiary Borrower   means, individually and collectively, as the context requires, each Subsidiary that is or becomes a
 Borrower  in accordance with Section 2.22; in each case, unless and until it becomes a  Terminated Subsidiary Borrower .        TBC   means The Boeing Company, a Delaware corporation.        Term Loan   means a term loan resulting from the
conversion of Committed Advances on the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.3.        Term Loan Conversion Option   means the option
under Section 2.3 for TBC to convert, as of the Termination Date, all or a part of the Committed Advances then outstanding into Term Loans.        Terminated Subsidiary Borrower   means, individually and collectively, as the context requires, a Subsidiary Borrower that has ceased to be a  Borrower  in accordance with Section 2.22.        Termination Date   means the earlier to occur of (i) November 14, 2008, as such date may be extended from time to time pursuant to
Section 2.21, and (ii) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.8 or Section 6.2.        Total
Capital   has the meaning specified in Section 4.2(b).        Type  , as to Committed Borrowings, means either Base Rate Advances
or Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances and, as to Bid Borrowings, means either Fixed Rate Advances or Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances.         
   10   

Voting Stock   means, as to a corporation, all the issued and outstanding capital stock of such
corporation having general voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not any capital stock of any other class or classes shall or might have voting power
upon the occurrence of any contingency).       

1.2  
   Use of Defined Terms; References .   Any defined term used in the plural preceded by the definite article encompasses all members of the relevant class. Any defined term
used in the singular preceded by  a ,  an  or  any  indicates any number of the members of the relevant class. All references in this Agreement to a Section, Article, Schedule or Exhibit are to a Section, Article,
Schedule or Exhibit of or to this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated.         

1.3  
   Accounting Terms . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those
applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.1(e).         ARTICLE 2
       Amounts and Terms of the Advances        

(a)  
   Obligation to Make Committed Advances . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Committed Advances to the Borrowers from time
to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Termination Date in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed such Lender s Commitment,  provided  that the aggregate amount of the
Commitments of the Lenders shall be deemed used from time to time to the extent of the aggregate amount of the Bid Advances then outstanding and such deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments shall be applied to the Lenders ratably
according to their respective Commitments (such deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments being a   Bid Reduction  ).         

(c)  
   Type of Committed Advances . Each Committed Borrowing shall consist of Committed Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their
respective Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender s Commitment, the Borrowers may from time to time borrow, prepay pursuant to Section 2.12, and reborrow under this Section 2.1 and Section 2.2.         

2.2  
   Making Committed Advances .         

(a)  
   Notice of Committed Borrowing . Each Committed Borrowing shall be made on notice, given by a Borrower to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the day of
the proposed Committed Borrowing in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing and on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Committed Borrowing in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Borrowing (a   Notice of Committed
Borrowing  ). Each such Notice of Committed Borrowing shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit B-l, specifying the requested         

(i)  
  date of such Committed Borrowing,         

(ii)  
  Type of Committed Advances constituting such Committed Borrowing,           
   11   

(iii)  
  aggregate amount of such Committed Borrowing, and         

(iv)  
  in the case of a Committed Borrowing composed of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Committed Advance, which Interest Period may be 1, 2, 3 or 6
months, at the option of the Borrower, or, if acceptable to all the Lenders, 9 months.        Every Notice of Committed Borrowing
given by a Subsidiary Borrower must be countersigned by an authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that proposed Committed Borrowing. Upon receipt of a Notice of Committed Borrowing, the
Agent shall promptly give notice to each Lender thereof.       

(b)  
   Funding Committed Advances . Each Lender shall, before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Committed Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable
Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent s Account, in same day funds, such Lender s ratable portion of such Committed Borrowing. After the Agent s receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in
Article 5, the Agent will make such funds available to the relevant Borrower at an account specified by such Borrower.         

(c)  
   Irrevocable Notice . Each Notice of Committed Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding. In the case of any Committed Borrowing that the related Notice of Committed Borrowing
specifies is to be composed of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower requesting such Committed Borrowing shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender on account of any failure to fulfill on or before the
date specified for such Committed Borrowing in such Notice of Committed Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5, including, without limitation, any loss (but excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by
reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Committed Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Committed Borrowing when such Committed Advance, as a result of such failure, is not
made on such date.         

(d)  
   Lender s Ratable Portion . Unless the Agent has received notice from a Lender prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the day of any Committed Borrowing that such
Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender s ratable portion of such Committed Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Committed Borrowing in accordance with
subsection (b) of this Section 2.2 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the requesting Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that a Lender has not so made such ratable portion
available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower shall severally repay to the Agent forthwith on demand an amount that in the aggregate equals such corresponding amount together with interest thereon for each day from the date such amount is
made available by the Agent to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at         

(i)  
  in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Committed Advances constituting such Committed Borrowing, and         

(ii)  
  in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate.        If
such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender s Committed Advance as part of such Committed Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.       

(e)  
   Independent Lender Obligations . The failure of any Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by it as part of any Committed Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender
of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Committed Advance on the date of such Committed Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by such other Lender on the
date of any Committed Borrowing.           
   12   

2.3  
   Conversion to Term Loans, Repayment . The Borrowers shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders on the
Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Committed Advances then outstanding. TBC may, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Termination Date, convert all or a part of the unpaid principal
amount of the Committed Advances outstanding as of the Termination Date into Term Loans. If this Term Loan Conversion Option is exercised, then, on the Termination Date, immediately prior to the time when the unpaid principal amount of the Committed
Advances would otherwise be due, the Committed Advances shall automatically convert into Term Loans which the respective Borrowers shall repay to the Agent for the ratable accounts of the Lenders on the Maturity Date. The amounts so converted shall
be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as Committed Advances except that after the Termination Date:         

(i)  
  the Borrowers may not make any additional borrowings;         

(ii)  
  any amounts paid or prepaid may not be reborrowed;         

(iii)  
  the amount of each Lender s Commitment shall be equal at all times to the principal amount of the Term Loans payable to such Lender from time to time;     

(iv)  
  the provisions of Section 2.19 shall not be effective; and         

(v)  
  no Facility Fees or utilization fees shall accrue or be payable after the Termination Date.         

2.4  
   Interest Rate on Committed Advances . Each Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each of its Committed Advances from the date of such Committed Advance
until such principal amount is paid in full, at the following rates per annum:         

(i)  
  during each period in which such Committed Advance is a Base Rate Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable
Margin plus the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, payable quarterly in arrears on the first day of each January, April, July and October and on (x) the Termination Date, or (y) if TBC has exercised the Term Loan Conversion Option, the
Maturity Date, and         

(ii)  
  during each period in which such Committed Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times during each relevant Interest Period for such Committed
Advance to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin plus the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, payable on the last day of each such Interest Period, and if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three
months, quarterly on each day during such Interest Period that is three months from either (A) the first day of such Interest Period or (B) the last such interest payment date and on the date such Committed Advance is Converted or paid in
full;         provided  that in the event and during the continuance of an Event of Default (x) the Applicable Margin
shall immediately increase by 1.0% above the Applicable Margin then in effect, and, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, such Advance shall automatically convert to a Base Rate Advance at the end of the Interest Period then in effect for such
Eurodollar Rate Advance and (y) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until
such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% above the Base Rate.         
   13   

(a)  
   Bid Advances Impact on Commitments . The Borrowers may make Bid Borrowings from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Termination
Date in the manner set forth below,  provided  that, following the making of each Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders (computed without
regard to the Bid Reduction). As provided in Section 2.1 above, the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders shall be deemed used from time to time to the extent of the aggregate amount of the Bid Advances then outstanding, and such
deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments shall be applied to the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments;  provided ,  however , that any Lender s Bid Advances shall not otherwise reduce that
Lender s obligation to lend its pro rata share of the remaining Available Commitments.         

(b)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . Any Borrower may request a Bid Borrowing by delivering to the Agent a notice of a Bid Borrowing (a   Notice of Bid Borrowing  ), in
substantially the form of Exhibit B-2, specifying the following:         

(i)  
  the date and aggregate amount of the proposed Bid Borrowing,         

(ii)  
  the maturity date for repayment of each Bid Advance to be made as part of such Bid Borrowing, which maturity date         

(A)  
  may not be later than 5 Business Days prior to the Termination Date, but may otherwise be 7 days or more from the date of such requested Bid Advance if the Borrower specifies in the
Notice of Bid Borrowing that the rates of interest to be offered by the Lenders will be fixed rates per annum (a   Fixed Rate Borrowing  ), and         

(B)  
  shall be either 1, 2, 3, 6 or 9 months from the date of such Bid Borrowing if the Borrower specifies in the Notice of Bid Borrowing that such Bid Borrowing is to consist of
Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances (a   Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing  ),         

(iii)  
  the interest payment date or dates relating thereto, and         

(iv)  
  any other terms to be applicable to such Bid Borrowing.        A
Borrower requesting a Bid Borrowing shall deliver a Notice of Bid Borrowing to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) (A) at least one Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Bid Borrowing if the proposed Bid Borrowing
is to be a Fixed Rate Borrowing, and (B) at least four Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Bid Borrowing, if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing. Every Notice of Bid Borrowing given by a Subsidiary
Borrower must be countersigned by an authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that proposed Bid Borrowing. The Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Lender of each request for a Bid
Borrowing by sending such Lender a copy of the related Notice of Bid Borrowing.       

(c)  
     Discretion as to Bid Advances . Each Lender may, in its sole discretion, elect to irrevocably offer to make one or more Bid Advances to the applicable
Borrower as part of such proposed Bid Borrowing at a rate or rates of interest specified by such Lender in its sole discretion (each such  
          
   14   

rate of interest to be a fixed rate if the Borrower requested Fixed Rate Advances or a margin over the Eurodollar Rate if the Borrower requested Eurodollar
Rate Bid Advances), by notifying the Agent (which shall give prompt notice thereof to the Company and such Borrower), before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) (A) on the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to be
a Fixed Rate Borrowing and (B) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Notice of Bid Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing. In such notice the Lender shall specify the following:

(i)  
  the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Bid Advance which such Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Bid Borrowing (which amounts may, subject to the first
proviso in this Section 2.5(a), exceed such Lender s Commitment),         

(ii)  
  the rate or rates of interest therefor (specified as stated in this paragraph (c)), and         

(iii)  
  such Lender s Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Bid Advance;         provided  that if the Agent in its capacity as a Lender, in its sole discretion, elects to make any such offer, it shall notify such Borrower and the Company of such offer before 9:30 a.m. (New York City time)
on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders. If, by 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date on which notice of a Lender s election under this Section 2.5(c) is to be made, the Agent
fails to receive, at its address specified in Section 8.2, a notice from a Lender provided for in this Section 2.5(c), the Agent may conclusively presume that such Lender has elected not to offer to make any Bid Advances to such Borrower
with respect to the related Notice of Bid Borrowing.       

(d)  
   Borrower Selection of Lender Bids . The Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing shall, in turn, (A) before 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of such proposed Bid
Borrowing, in the case of a proposed Bid Borrowing to be a Fixed Rate Borrowing, and (B) before 12:00 noon (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, in the case of a proposed Bid Borrowing to be a
Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing, either:         

(i)  
  cancel such Bid Borrowing by giving the Agent notice to that effect, or         

(ii)  
  accept, in its sole discretion, one or more of the offers made by a Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.5(c), by giving notice to the Agent of the amount of each Bid
Advance (which amount shall be equal to or greater than the minimum amount and equal to or less than the maximum amount, notified to such Borrower by the Agent on behalf of such Lender for such Bid Advance pursuant to Section 2.5(c)) to be made
by each Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, and reject any remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to Section 2.5(c) by giving the Agent notice to that effect;  provided  that offers will be accepted, if at all, in order of lowest to
highest interest rates, and, if two or more Lenders bid at the same rate, the Bid Borrowing with respect to such rate will be allocated among such Lenders in proportion to the amount bid by each such Lender.        If the Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing notifies the Agent that such Bid Borrowing is canceled pursuant to Section 2.5(d)(i), the Agent shall
give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and such Bid Borrowing shall not be made.       

(e)  
   Bid Borrowing . If the Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing accepts one or more of the offers made by a Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.5(d)(ii), the Agent shall
in turn promptly           
   15   

(i)  
  notify each Lender that has made an offer as described in Section 2.5(c), of the date and aggregate amount of such Bid Borrowing and whether or not any offer or offers made by
such Lender pursuant to Section 2.5(c) have been accepted by such Borrower,         

(ii)  
  notify each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance, as part of such Bid Borrowing, of the amount of each Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, and

(iii)  
  upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in 5.3 or 5.6, as applicable, notify each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance as part of such Bid Borrowing that the applicable
conditions set forth in Article 5 appear to have been satisfied.        When each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance as part of
such Bid Borrowing has received notice from the Agent pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, such Lender shall, before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Bid Borrowing specified in the notice received from the Agent
pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent s Account such Lender s portion of such Bid Borrowing, in same day funds. Upon fulfillment of
the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5 and after receipt by the Agent of such funds, the Agent will make such funds available to the relevant Borrower at an account specified by such Borrower. Promptly after each Bid Borrowing the Agent
shall notify each Lender of the amount of the Bid Borrowing, the consequent Bid Reduction, and the dates upon which such Bid Reduction commenced and will terminate.       

(f)  
  If the Borrower proposing such Bid Borrowing notifies the Agent pursuant to Section 2.5(d)(ii) above that it accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders,
such notice of acceptance shall be irrevocable and binding on such Borrower. Such Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in
the related Notice of Bid Borrowing for such Bid Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5, including, without limitation, any loss (but excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation
or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing when such Bid Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.

(g)  
   Amount of Bid Borrowings . Each Notice of Bid Borrowing shall request an aggregate amount of Bid Advances not less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000
in excess thereof,  provided  that a Borrower may accept offers aggregating less than $10,000,000 and offers which are not an integral multiple of $1,000,000, and  provided   further  that, as provided in Section 2.5(a),
following the making of each Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders (computed without regard to the Bid Reduction). Within the limits and on the
conditions set forth in this Section 2.5, the Borrowers may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.5, repay pursuant to Section 2.5(g), and reborrow under this Section 2.5,  provided  that a Bid Borrowing shall not be
made within three Business Days of the date of any other Bid Borrowing.         

(h)  
   Repayment of Bid Advances . On the maturity date of each Bid Advance specified by the relevant Borrower for repayment of such Bid Advance in the related Notice of Bid
Borrowing, the Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of the Lender which has made such Bid Advance the then unpaid principal amount of such Bid Advance. The Borrowers shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Bid Advance
without the consent of the Lender which extended such Bid Advance.           
   16   

(i)  
   Interest on Bid Advances; Bid Notes . The relevant Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Bid Advance, from the date of such Bid Advance to the
date the principal amount of such Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the fixed rate of interest specified by the Lender making such Fixed Rate Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to Section 2.5(c) or, in the case of a
Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, the margin specified by the Lender making such Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto plus the Eurodollar Rate determined with respect to such Bid Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.10, payable on the interest
payment date or dates specified by the Borrower for such Bid Advance in the related Notice of Bid Borrowing. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the applicable Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of unpaid
principal of and interest on each Bid Advance owing to a Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is payable thereon, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such
Bid Advance under the terms of the Bid Note evidencing such Bid Advance unless otherwise agreed in such Bid Note. The indebtedness of the applicable Borrower resulting from each Bid Advance made to the Borrower as part of a Bid Borrowing shall be
evidenced by a separate Bid Note of such Borrower payable to the order of the Lender making such Bid Advance, which Bid Note shall be returned to the Borrower upon payment in full of such Bid Advance.         

2.6  
   Lender Assignment or Sale . Any Lender may, without the prior written consent of the Borrowers, sell or assign all or any part of such Lender s rights in any or all of
the Bid Advances made by such Lender or in the Bid Notes in connection with such Bid Advances as a participation,  provided ,  however , that         

(i)  
  any such sale or assignment shall not require any Borrower to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify the Advances or the Notes
under the blue sky laws of any state, and the selling or assigning Lender shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such transaction,         

(ii)  
  no purchaser or assignee in such a transaction shall thereby become a  Lender  for any purpose under this Agreement,         

(iii)  
  such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrowers) shall remain unchanged,         

(iv)  
  such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and         

(v)  
  the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement.         

2.7    
     Fees . TBC agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (  Facility Fee  ) on such Lender s Commitment, without regard
to usage. The Facility Fee shall be payable for the periods from the date hereof in the case of each Lender named in Schedule I, and from the effective date on which any other Lender becomes party hereto, until the Termination Date (or such earlier
date on which such Lender ceases to be a party hereto) at the rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time. Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and
October 1 during the term of this Agreement until and on the Termination Date. The amount of the Facility Fee payable on January 1, 2008 and on the Termination Date shall be prorated based on the actual number of days elapsed either since
the date hereof (in the case of the January 1, 2008 payment) or since the date on which the last payment in respect of the Facility Fee was made (in the case of the payment made on the Termination Date).           
   17   

2.8  
   Reduction of the Commitments .         

(a)  
   Optional Reductions . TBC shall have the right, upon at least 3 Business Days  notice to the Agent, to permanently terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in
part the unused portions of the Commitments,  provided  that each partial reduction shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and  provided   further  that the aggregate
amount of the Commitments shall not be reduced to an amount which is less than the aggregate principal amount of the Bid Advances then outstanding.         

(b)  
   Mandatory Reduction . At the close of business on the Termination Date, the aggregate Commitments shall be automatically and permanently reduced, on a pro rata basis, by an
amount equal to the amount by which the aggregate Commitments immediately prior to giving effect to such reduction exceed the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Committed Advances then outstanding.         

2.9  
   Additional Interest on Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances . Each Borrower shall pay to each Lender, so long as such Lender is required under regulations of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance of
such Lender to such Borrower, from the date of such Committed Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for
such Interest Period for such Committed Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each
date on which interest is payable on such Committed Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to the relevant Borrowers through the Agent.         

2.10    
   Eurodollar Interest Rate Determination .         

(a)  
   Methods to Determine Eurodollar Rate . The Agent shall determine the Eurodollar Rate for each Eurodollar Rate Advance by using the methods described in the definition of the
term  Eurodollar Rate,  and shall give prompt notice to the relevant Borrowers and the Lenders of each such Eurodollar Rate.         

(b)  
   Role of Reference Banks . In the event the Eurodollar Rate cannot be determined by the first method described in the definition of  Eurodollar Rate,  each Reference
Bank shall furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining the Eurodollar Rate in accordance with the second method described therein. If any one or more of the Reference Banks does not furnish such timely information to the
Agent for the purpose of determining a Eurodollar Rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. In the event the rate cannot be determined by either of the methods
described in the definition of  Eurodollar Rate,  then:         

(i)  
  the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances,         

(ii)  
  each such Advance, if a Committed Advance, will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if the Borrower
was attempting to Convert a Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance, such Advance will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and           
   18   

(iii)  
  the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances, or to make, or to Convert Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances shall be suspended until
the Agent notifies the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.         

(c)  
   Inadequate Eurodollar Rate . If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period
for such Committed Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the
relevant Borrowers and the Lenders, whereupon         

(i)  
  each such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and

(ii)  
  the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances shall be suspended until the Agent notifies the Borrowers and the
Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.         

(d)  
   Absence of an Interest Period on a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance . If a Borrower fails to select the duration of an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance
in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of  Interest Period  in Section 1.1, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Committed Advances will automatically, on the last day of the
then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.         

2.11  
   Voluntary Conversion of Committed Advances . Subject to the provisions of Sections 2.10 and 2.15, any Borrower may Convert all such Borrower s Committed Advances of one
Type constituting the same Committed Borrowing into Advances of the other Type on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion;
 provided ,  however , that the Conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance into a Base Rate Advance may be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance. Each such notice of a
Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify         

(i)  
  the date of such Conversion,         

(ii)  
  the Committed Advances to be Converted, and         

(iii)  
  if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for each such Committed Advance.         

2.12  
   Prepayments . Any Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time, upon prior written notice from such Borrower to the Agent, to prepay its outstanding
principal obligations with respect to its Committed Advances in whole or ratably in part (except as provided in Section 2.15 or 2.19),  provided  that every notice of prepayment given by a Subsidiary Borrower must be countersigned by an
authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that prepayment. Such prepaying Borrower may be obligated to make certain prepayments of obligations with respect to one or more Committed Advances
subject to and in accordance with this Section 2.12.           
   19   

(a)  
   Base Rate Borrowings Prepayments . With respect to Base Rate Borrowings, such prepayment shall be without premium or penalty, upon notice given to the Agent, and shall be made
not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment. The Borrower shall designate in such notice the amount and date of such prepayment. Accrued interest on the amount so prepaid shall be payable on the first Business Day
of the calendar quarter next following the prepayment. The minimum amount of Base Rate Borrowings which may be prepaid on any occasion shall be $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, if less, the total amount of Base
Rate Advances then outstanding for that Borrower.         

(b)  
   Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings Prepayments . With respect to Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings, such prepayment shall be made on at least 3 Business Days  prior
written notice to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time), and if such notice is given the applicable Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Committed Advances constituting part of the same Committed Borrowing
in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid. The minimum amount of Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings which may be prepaid on any occasion shall be $10,000,000 or an
integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, if less, the total amount of Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances then outstanding for that Borrower.         

(c)  
   Additional Prepayment Payments . The prepaying Borrower shall, on the date of the prepayment of any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, pay to the Agent for the account of
each Lender interest accrued to such date of prepayment on the principal amount prepaid plus, in the case only of a prepayment on any date which is not the last day of an applicable Eurodollar Interest Period, any amounts which may be required to
compensate such Lender for any losses or out-of-pocket costs or expenses (including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds, but excluding loss of anticipated profits) incurred by
such Lender as a result of such prepayment,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts to minimize any such losses, costs and expenses.         

(d)  
   Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance Prepayment Expense . If, due to the acceleration of any of the Committed Advances pursuant to Section 6.2(b), an assignment, repayment
or prepayment under Section 2.19, 2.20 or 2.21 or otherwise, any Lender receives payment of its portion of, or is subject to any Conversion from, any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period
with respect to such Committed Advance, the relevant Borrowers shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts which may be payable to such Lender by such Borrower by reason of payment on such day as provided in
Section 2.12(c).         

(a)  
   Costs from Law or Authorities . If, due to either         

(1)  
  the introduction of, or any change (other than, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Borrowings, a change by way of imposition or an increase of reserve requirements described in
Section 2.9) in, or new interpretation of, any law or regulation effective at any time and from time to time on or after the date hereof, or         

(2)  
  the compliance with any guideline or the request from or by any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law),        there is an increase in the cost incurred by a Lender in agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance or
Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance then or at any time thereafter outstanding (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.13 any such increased  
       
   20   

costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net
income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office (or any political subdivision thereof), then      TBC shall from time to time, upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent),
pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender such amounts as are required to compensate such Lender for such increased cost,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and
regulatory restrictions) to minimize any such increased cost and  provided   further  that the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such compensation with respect to any period prior to the 90th day before the date of any such
demand, unless such introduction, change, compliance or request shall have retroactive effect to a date prior to such 90  th    day. A certificate as to the
amount of such increase in cost, submitted to the relevant Borrowers and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under this Section 2.13(a), absent manifest error.        

(b)  
   Increased Capital Requirements . If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guidelines or request from any central bank or other governmental
authority (whether or not having the force of law) which is enacted, adopted or issued at any time and from time to time after the date hereof affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender (or any
corporation controlling such Lender) and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender s Commitment and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to
the Agent), the Borrowers shall immediately pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender in the light of such circumstances, to the extent
that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender s Commitment,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and
regulatory restrictions) to minimize any such compensation payable by the Borrowers hereunder and  provided   further  that the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such compensation with respect to any period prior to the 90th day
before the date of any such demand, unless such introduction, change, compliance or request shall have retroactive effect to a date prior to such 90th day. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the relevant Borrowers and the Agent by such
Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.         

(c)  
   Borrower Rights Upon Cost Increases . Upon receipt of notice from any Lender claiming compensation pursuant to this Section 2.13 or Section 2.14 and as long as no
Default has occurred and is continuing, TBC shall have the right, on or before the 30th day after the date of receipt of any such notice,         

(i)  
  to arrange for one or more Lenders or other commercial banks to assume the Commitment of such Lender; subject, however, to payment to the Agent by the assignor or the assignee of a
processing and recording fee of $3,500, in the event the assuming lender is not a Lender; or         

(ii)  
  to arrange for the Commitment of such Lender to be terminated and all Committed Advances owed to such Lender to be prepaid;        and, in either case, subject to payment in full of all principal, accrued and unpaid interest, fees and other amounts payable under this Agreement and
then owing to such Lender immediately prior to the assignment or termination of the Commitment of such Lender.         
   21   

(a)  
   Exclusion and Inclusion of Taxes . Any and all payments by each Borrower hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Notes shall be made, in accordance with
Section 2.16, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto,  excluding , in the case of each Lender and the
Agent, taxes that are imposed on its overall net income by the United States and taxes that are imposed on its overall net income (and franchise taxes imposed in lieu thereof) by the state or foreign jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender
or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes that are imposed on its overall net income (and franchise taxes imposed in lieu thereof) by the state or foreign jurisdiction
of such Lender s Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or with respect to any Advances or
under any Notes, hereinafter referred to as   Taxes  ). If any Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect to any sum payable hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Note to any Lender or
the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case
may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation
authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.         

(b)  
   Payment of Other Taxes . In addition, each Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp, documentary, excise, property or similar taxes, charges, or levies that arise from
any payment made hereunder or with respect to any Advances and under any Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performance under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Notes (  Other Taxes  ).

(c)  
   Indemnification as to Taxes . Each Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes, and for the
full amount of taxes of any kind imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14, imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising
therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.         

(d)  
   Evidence of or Exemption from Taxes . Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower which paid such Taxes shall furnish to the Agent, at its address
referred to in Section 8.2, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment. In the case of any payment hereunder or with respect to the Advances or under any Notes by or on behalf of any Borrower through an account or
branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of any Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no taxes are payable in respect thereof, such Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to
furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms   United States   and
  United States person   have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.         

(e)  
     Non-U.S. Lenders . Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States shall, on or prior to the date of its execution and
delivery of this Agreement (in the case of each Lender listed in Schedule I), and from the date on which any other Lender becomes a party hereto (in the case of each other Lender), and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by TBC (but
only so long thereafter as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), provide each of the Agent and TBC with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8EC1, as  
          
   22   

appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, to establish that such Lender is not subject to, or is entitled to a reduced
rate of, United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or with respect to any Advances or any Notes. If the forms provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States
interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate form certifying that a lower rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such
lower rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form;  provided ,  however , that, if at the date on which a Lender becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under
subsection 2.14(a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts
otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this subsection 2.14(e) requires the disclosure of information, other than
information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8EC1, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the
relevant Borrowers and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document confidential information.          

(f)  
   Lender Failure to Provide IRS Forms . For any period with respect to which any Lender has failed to provide TBC with the appropriate form described in subsection 2.14(e)
(other than if such failure is due to a change in law occurring after the date on which a form originally was required to be provided or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection 2.14(e)), such Lender shall not be entitled to
indemnification under subsection (a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure;  provided ,  however , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a
form required hereunder, TBC shall take such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such Taxes.         

2.15  
   Illegality . If any Lender shall notify the Agent that either         

(a)  
  there is any introduction of, or change in or in the interpretation of, any law or regulation that in the opinion of counsel for such Lender in the relevant jurisdiction makes it
unlawful, or         

(b)  
  any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful        for such Lender to continue to fund or maintain any Eurodollar Rate Advances or to perform its obligations hereunder with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, then, upon the issuance of such opinion of
counsel or such assertion by a central bank or other governmental authority, the Agent shall give notice of such opinion or assertion to the Borrowers (accompanied by such opinion, if applicable). The Borrowers shall forthwith either       

(i)  
  prepay in full all Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances and all Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances made by such Lender, with accrued interest thereon or         

(ii)  
  Convert each such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance made by such Lender into a Base Rate Advance.        Upon such prepayment or Conversion, the obligation of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances or Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances, or to
Convert Committed Advances into Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrowers that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exists.         
   23   

(a)  
   Time and Distribution of Payments . The Borrowers shall make each payment hereunder and with respect to any Advances or under any Notes, without counterclaim or setoff, not
later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at the Agent s Account in same day funds. The Agent shall promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or
interest or fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.5, 2.9, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 or 2.19) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other
amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. From and after the effective date of an assignment pursuant to
Section 2.20, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and with respect to any Advances or under any Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such assignment shall make all
appropriate adjustments in such payments for the periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.         

(b)  
   Computation of Interest and Fees . All computations of interest based on the Base Rate and utilization fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366
days, as the case may be. All computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of Facility Fees shall be made by the Agent, and all computations of interest pursuant to Section 2.9 shall be made by a Lender,
on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent (or, in the case
of Section 2.9, by a Lender) of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.         

(c)  
   Payment Due Dates . Whenever any payment hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such
payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or fee, as the case may be, but not later than the Termination Date or, if the Term Loan
Conversion Option has been exercised, the Maturity Date;  provided ,  however , if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.         

(d)  
   Presumption of Borrower Payment . Unless the Agent receives notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to any Lenders hereunder that such Borrower
will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each such Lender on such due date an
amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that such Borrower has not made such payment in full to the Agent, each such Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together
with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.         

2.17  
     Sharing of Payments, Etc . If any Lender obtains any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on
account of the Committed Advances made by it (other than pursuant to Sections 2.9, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 or 2.19), in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Committed Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith
purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Committed Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the  
          
   24   

excess payment ratably with each of them,  provided ,  however , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from
such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each other Lender shall be rescinded and each such other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender s
ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender s required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing
Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrowers agree that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.17 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of
payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a creditor of the Borrowers in the amount of such participation.          

(a)  
   Lender Records; If Notes Required . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to
such Lender resulting from each Committed Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Committed Advances. Each Borrower
shall, upon notice by any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Committed Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or
otherwise) the Committed Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Committed Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such
Lender.         

(b)  
   Record of Borrowings ,  Payables and Payments . The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 2.20(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary
account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded         

(i)  
  the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder to each Borrower, the Type of Advances constituting such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto,

(ii)  
  the terms of each assignment pursuant to Section 2.20,         

(iii)  
  the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder, and         

(iv)  
  the amount of any sum received by the Agent from a Borrower hereunder and each Lender s share thereof.         

(c)  
   Evidence of Payment Obligations . Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts
pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be  prima   facie  evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from a Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of
such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error;  provided ,  however , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such
account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement.           
   25   

2.19  
   Alteration of Commitments and Addition of Lenders .         

(a)  
   Alter Lender Commitment . By a written agreement executed only by TBC, the Agent and the affected Lender and any non-party lender involved,         

(i)  
  the Commitment of such affected Lender may be increased to the amount set forth in such agreement;         

(ii)  
  such non-party lender may be added as a Lender with a Commitment as set forth in such agreement,  provided  that such lender agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions
of this Agreement; and         

(iii)  
  the unused portion of the Commitment of such affected Lender may be reduced or terminated and the Committed Advances owing to such Lender may be prepaid in whole or in part, all as
set forth in such agreement.         

(b)  
   Conditions to Alteration . The Agent may execute any such agreement without the prior consent of any Lender other than the Lender affected,  provided ,  however ,
that if at the time the Agent proposes to execute such agreement either (A) TBC s long-term senior unsecured debt is rated by any two of S P, Moody s and Fitch, lower than BBB+ by S P, lower than Baa1 by Moody s or lower
than BBB+ by Fitch or (B) a Default has occurred and is continuing, then the Agent shall not execute any such agreement unless it has first obtained the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders, and  provided   further  that the
Agent shall not execute any such agreement without the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders if such agreement would increase the total of the Commitments to an amount in excess of $1,000,000,000 or, pursuant to Section 2.19(c),
$2,000,000,000.         

(c)  
   Increase Total Commitment . The Company has the right, twice prior to the initial Termination Date (and, if the Termination Date is extended pursuant to Section 2.21,
twice following such extension), to increase the total of the Commitments through a  Request for Alteration , in minimum increments of $25,000,000, up to a maximum aggregate of Commitments of $2,000,000,000,  provided  that, in addition to
the requirements specified in Section 2.19(b), at the time of and after giving effect to an increase, TBC s long-term senior unsecured non-credit-enhanced debt ratings from Moody s and S P are better than or equal to Baa1 and
BBB+, respectively. The Company may offer the proposed increase (the   Proposed Increased Commitment  ) to such Lender(s) or third party financial institutions acceptable to the Agent and each Issuing Bank (  New
Lenders  ) as the Borrower may select, provided that         

(i)  
  such selected Lender(s) and such New Lender(s) shall have the right, but no obligation, to increase (or establish) its Commitment, by giving notice thereof to the Agent, to all or a
portion of the Proposed Increased Commitment, allocations to be at the sole discretion of the Company, and         

(d)  
     Request for Alteration . The Agent shall give each Lender prompt notice of any such agreement becoming effective. All requests for Lender consent under the
provisions of this Section 2.19 shall specify the date upon which any such increase, addition, reduction, termination, or prepayment shall become effective (the   Effective Date  ) and shall be made by means of a  Request for
Alteration  substantially in the form as set forth in Exhibit C. On the Effective Date on which the Commitment of any Lender is increased, decreased, terminated or created or on which prepayment is made, all as described in such Request for
Alteration, the Borrowers or such Lender, as the case may be, shall make available to the Agent not later than 12:30 p.m. (New York City time) on such date, in same day funds, the amount, if any, which may be required (and the Agent shall distribute
such funds received by it to the Borrowers or to such Lenders, as the  
          
   26   

case may be) so that at the close of business on such date the sum of the Committed Advances of each Lender then outstanding shall be in the same proportion
to the total of the Committed Advances of all the Lenders then outstanding as the Commitment of such Lender is to the total of the Commitments. The Agent shall give each Lender notice of the amount to be made available by, or to be distributed to,
such Lender at least 3 Business Days before such payment is made.          

2.20  
   Assignments; Sales of Participations and Other Interests in Advances .         

(a)  
   Assignment of Lender Obligations . From time to time each Lender may, with the prior written consent of TBC (so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing) and
subject to the qualifications set forth below, assign to one or more Lenders or an Eligible Assignee all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the
Committed Advances owing to it and the Committed Note, if any, held by it) and will, at any time, if arranged by the Company pursuant to clause (i)(A) below upon at least 30 days  notice to such Lender and the Agent, assign to one or more
Eligible Assignees all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including without limitation, all of its Commitment, the Committed Advances owing to it and the Committed Note, if any, held by it); subject to the following:

(i)  
  If such Lender notifies TBC and the Agent of its intent to request the consent of TBC to an assignment, TBC shall have the right, for 30 days after receipt of such notice and so
long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in its sole discretion either (A) to arrange for one or more Eligible Assignees to accept such assignment (a   Required Assignment  ) or (B) to arrange for the
rights and obligations of such Lender (including, without limitation, such Lender s Commitment), and the total Commitments, to be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of such Lender s Commitment proposed to be assigned and, in
connection with such reduction, to prepay that portion of the Committed Advances owing to such Lender which it proposes to assign;         

(ii)  
  If TBC fails to notify such Lender within 30 days of TBC s receipt of such Lender s request for consent to assignment, the Borrowers shall be deemed to consent to the
proposed assignment;         

(iii)  
  Any such assignment shall not require any Borrower to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify the interests in the Committed
Advances under the blue sky laws of any state and the assigning Lender shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such assignment;         

(iv)  
  Unless TBC consents, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to any such assignment (determined as of the date of the assignment) shall either
(A) equal 50% of all such rights and obligations (or 100% in the case of a Required Assignment) or (B) not be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;         

(v)  
  Unless either (x) TBC consents or (y) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the aggregate amount of the Commitment assigned pursuant to all such assignments
of such Lender (after giving effect to such assignment) shall in no event exceed 50% (except in the case of a Required Assignment) of all such Lender s Commitment (as set forth in Schedule I, in the case of each Lender that is a party hereto as
of November 16, 2007, or as set forth in the Register as the aggregate Commitment assigned to such Lender pursuant to one or more assignments, in the case of any assignee); and           
   27   

(vi)  
  No Lender shall be obligated to make a Required Assignment unless such Lender has received payments in an aggregate amount at least equal to the outstanding principal amount of all
Committed Advances being assigned, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement (including without limitation Section 2.12(c),
 provided  that such Lender shall receive its pro rata share of the Facility Fee on the next date on which the Facility Fee is payable).         

(b)  
   Effect of Lender Assignment . From and after the effective date of any assignment pursuant to Section 2.20(a), (i) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto
and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such assignment, it shall have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (ii) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that
rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such assignment, relinquish its rights (other than its rights under Section 2.13, 2.14, 2.19 or 8.3 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior to
such assignment) and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an assignment covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to
be a party hereto).         

(c)  
   Security Interest; Assignment to Lender Affiliate . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any Lender may, upon prior or contemporaneous notice to TBC and the
Agent, at any time (i) create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including without limitation, the Advances owing to it and the Notes held by it, if any) in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in
accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and (ii) assign all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the
Committed Advances owing to it and the Committed Note held by it, if any) to an Affiliate of such Lender  unless  the result of such an assignment would be to increase the cost to any Borrowers of requesting, borrowing, continuing, maintaining,
paying or converting any Advances.         

(d)  
   Agent s Register . The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.2 a copy of each assignment delivered to and accepted by it and a register for
the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Committed Advances of each Borrower owing to, each Lender from time to time (the   Register  ). The entries in the Register
shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each entity whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register
shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. Upon receipt by the Agent from the assigning Lender of an assignment in form and substance satisfactory to
the Agent executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with evidence of each Committed Advance subject to such assignment, and a processing and recording fee of $3,500 (payable by either the
assignor or the assignee), the Agent shall, if such assignment is a Required Assignment or has been consented to by TBC to the extent required by Section 2.20(a) or has been effected pursuant to Section 2.21(c), (i) accept such
assignment, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register, and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to TBC.         

(e)  
   Lender Sale of Participations . Each Lender may sell participations in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all
or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Notes held by it, if any) to one or more Affiliates of such Lender or to one or more other commercial banks;  provided ,  however , that           
   28   

(i)  
  any such participation shall not require any Borrowers to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify any interests in the Advances
or any Notes under the blue sky laws of any state and the Lender selling or granting such participation shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such transaction,         

(ii)  
  no purchaser of such a participation shall be considered to be a  Lender  for any purpose under the Agreement,         

(iii)  
  such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrowers) shall remain unchanged,         

(iv)  
  such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations,         

(v)  
  such Lender shall remain the holder of any Notes issued with respect to its Advances for all purposes of this Agreement,         

(vi)  
  the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement, and         

(vii)  
  no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure
by any Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation,
or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.         

(f)  
   Confidential Borrower Information . Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this
Section 2.20, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrowers furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrowers;  provided ,  however , that, prior to any
such disclosure of Confidential Information, such Lender shall obtain the written consent of the Borrowers, and the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any such Confidential
Information received by it from such Lender except as disclosure may be required or appropriate to governmental authorities, pursuant to legal process, or by law or governmental regulation or authority.         

(a)  
     Extension Request . TBC may, on behalf of itself and the Subsidiary Borrowers, by written notice to the Agent in the form of Exhibit E (each such notice being
an   Extension Request  ) given no earlier than 60 days and no later than 45 days prior to the then applicable Termination Date, request that the then applicable Termination Date be extended to a date 364 days after the then
applicable Termination Date;  provided ,  however , that TBC shall not have exercised the Term Loan Conversion Option for Committed Advances outstanding on such Termination Date prior to such time. Such extension shall be effective with
respect to each Lender which, by a written notice in the form of Exhibit F (a   Continuation Notice  ) to TBC and the Agent given no earlier than 45 days and no later than 28 days prior to the then applicable Termination Date,
consents, in its sole discretion, to such extension (each Lender giving a Continuation Notice being referred to  
          
   29   

sometimes as a   Continuing Lender   and each Lender other than a Continuing Lender being a   Non-Extending Lender  ),
 provided ,  however , that such extension shall be effective only if the aggregate Commitments of the Continuing Lenders, together with the Commitments of the Replacement Lenders, are not less than 51% of the aggregate Commitments of the
Lenders on the date of the Extension Request. No Lender shall have any obligation to consent to any such extension of the Termination Date. The Agent shall notify each Lender of the receipt of an Extension Request within three (3) Business Days
after receipt thereof. The Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders no later than 15 days prior to the then applicable Termination Date whether the Agent has received Continuation Notices from Lenders holding at least 51% of the aggregate
Commitments on the date of the Extension Request.          

(b)  
   Non-Extending Lenders . The Commitment of each Non-Extending Lender shall terminate at the close of business on the Termination Date in effect prior to the delivery of such
Extension Request without giving any effect to such proposed extension, and on such Termination Date TBC shall take one of the following three actions:         

(i)  
  Replace the Non-Extending Lenders pursuant to Section 2.21(c); or         

(ii)  
  Pay or cause to be paid to the Agent, for the account of the Non-Extending Lenders, an amount equal to the Non-Extending Lenders  Committed Advances, together with accrued but
unpaid interest and fees thereon and all other amounts then payable hereunder to the Non-Extending Lenders; or         

(iii)  
  By giving notice to the Agent no later than three days prior to the Termination Date in effect prior to the delivery of such Extension Request, elect not to extend the Termination
Date beyond the then applicable Termination Date, and in this event the Borrowers may in their sole discretion repay any amount of the Committed Advances then outstanding or exercise the Term Loan Conversion Option with respect to the Committed
Advances outstanding on the Termination Date in accordance with Section 2.3.         

(c)  
   Replacement Lenders . A Non-Extending Lender shall be obligated, at the request of TBC, to assign at any time prior to the close of business on the Termination Date applicable
to such Non-Extending Lender all of its rights (other than rights that would survive the termination of the Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3) and obligations hereunder to one or more Lenders or other commercial banks nominated by TBC and
willing to become Lenders in place of such Non-Extending Lender (the   Replacement Lenders  ). In order to qualify as a Replacement Lender, a Lender or lender must satisfy all of the requirements of this Agreement (including without
limitation the terms of Section 2.20 relating to Required Assignments). Such obligation of each Non-Extending Lenders is subject to such Non-Extending Lender s receiving (i) payment in full from the Replacement Lenders of the
principal amount of all Advances owing to such Non-Extending Lender immediately prior to an assignment to the Replacement Lenders and (ii) payment in full from the relevant Borrowers of all accrued interest and fees and other amounts payable
hereunder and then owing to such Non-Extending Lender immediately prior to the assignment to the Replacement Lenders. Upon such assignment, the Non-Extending Lender shall no longer be a Lender, such Replacement Lender shall become a Continuing
Lender, and the Agent shall make appropriate entries in the Register to reflect the foregoing.         

(a)  
     Subsidiary Borrower Designation . TBC may at any time, and from time to time, by delivery to the Agent of a  Borrower Subsidiary Letter  substantially in
the form of Exhibit D, duly executed by TBC and the respective Subsidiary, designate such Subsidiary as a   Subsidiary Borrower   for purposes of this Agreement, and such Subsidiary shall thereupon become a  Subsidiary  
          
   30   

Borrower  for purposes of this Agreement and, as such, shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Borrower hereunder;  provided  that any
designation of a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America shall be made only upon 30 days prior notice to the Agent. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each such designation by
TBC and the identity of the designated Subsidiary. As soon as possible and in any event within 10 Business Days after notice of the designation of a Subsidiary Borrower that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States
of America, any Lender that may not legally lend to such Subsidiary Borrower (a   Protesting Lender  ) shall so notify TBC and the Agent in writing. With respect to each Protesting Lender, TBC shall, effective on or before the date
that such Subsidiary Borrower shall have the right to borrow hereunder, either:          

(i)  
  arrange for one or more Lenders or other commercial banks to assume the Commitment of such Protesting Lender;  subject ,  however , to payment to the Agent by the assignor
or the assignee of a processing and recording fee of $3,500, in the event the assuming lender is not a Lender; or         

(ii)  
  arrange for the Commitment of such Protesting Lender to be terminated and all Committed Advances owed to such Lender to be prepaid;        subject, in either case, to payment in full of all principal, accrued and unpaid interest, fees, commissions and other amounts payable under this
Agreement and then owing to such Lender immediately prior to the assignment or termination of the Commitment of such Lender.       

(b)  
   TBC Consent to Subsidiary Borrower Borrowings and Notices . No Advances shall be made to a Subsidiary Borrower, and no Conversion of any Advances at the request of a
Subsidiary Borrower shall be effective, without, in each and every instance, the prior consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, which shall be evidenced by the countersignature of TBC to the relevant Notice of Borrowing or notice of Conversion. In
addition, no notices which are to be delivered by a Borrower hereunder shall be effective, with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower, unless the notice is countersigned by TBC.         

(c)  
   Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event . The occurrence of any of the following events with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower shall constitute a   Subsidiary Borrower
Termination Event   with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower:         

(i)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower ceases to be a Subsidiary;         

(ii)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower is liquidated or dissolved;         

(iii)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower fails to preserve and maintain its existence;         

(iv)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower merges or consolidates with or into another Person, or conveys, transfers, leases, or otherwise disposes of (whether in one transaction or in a series of
transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person (except that a Subsidiary Borrower may merge into or dispose of assets to another Borrower);         

(v)  
  any of the  Events of Default  described in Section 6.1(a) through (f) occurs to or with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower as if such Subsidiary Borrower were
 TBC  or         

(vi)  
  the Guaranty with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower ceases, for any reason, to be valid and binding on TBC or TBC so states in writing.           
   31   

(d)  
   Terminated Subsidiary Borrower . Upon the occurrence of a Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower, such Subsidiary Borrower (a
  Terminated Subsidiary Borrower  ) shall cease to be a Borrower for purposes of this Agreement and shall no longer be entitled to request or borrow Advances hereunder. All outstanding Advances of a Terminated Subsidiary Borrower
shall be automatically due and payable as of the date on which the Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event of such Terminated Subsidiary Borrower occurred, together with accrued interest thereon and any other amounts then due and payable by that
Borrower hereunder, unless, in the case of a Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event described in paragraph (iv) of Section 2.22(c), the other Person party to the transaction is a Borrower and such other Borrower has assumed in writing all
of the outstanding Advances and other obligations under this Agreement and under the Notes, if any, of the Terminated Subsidiary Borrower.         

(e)  
   TBC as Subsidiary Borrowers  Agent . Each of the Subsidiary Borrowers hereby appoints and authorizes TBC to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such
powers under this Agreement as are delegated to TBC by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.         

(f)  
   Subsidiaries  Several Liabilities . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, each of the Subsidiary Borrowers shall be severally liable for the
liabilities and obligations of such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and its Borrowings, and Notes, if any. No Subsidiary Borrower shall be liable for the obligations of any other Borrower under this Agreement or any Borrowings of any other
Borrower or any other Borrower s Notes, if any. Each Subsidiary Borrower shall be severally liable for all payments of the principal of and interest on Advances to such Subsidiary Borrower, and any other amounts due hereunder that are
specifically allocable to such Subsidiary Borrower or the Advances to such Subsidiary Borrower. With respect to any amounts due hereunder, including fees, that are not specifically allocable to a particular Borrower, each Borrower shall be liable
for such amount pro rata in the same proportion as such Borrower s outstanding Advances bear to the total of then-outstanding Advances to all Borrowers.         ARTICLE 3        Representations and Warranties        

3.1  
   Representations and Warranties by the Borrowers . Each of the Borrowers represents and warrants as follows:         

(a)  
   Corporate Standing . TBC is a duly organized corporation existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each Subsidiary Borrower is duly organized, validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, and each of TBC and each Subsidiary Borrower is qualified to do business in every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure to so
qualify would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of TBC and the Subsidiary Borrowers as a whole.         

(b)  
   Corporate Powers; Governmental Approvals . The execution and delivery and the performance of the terms of this Agreement are, and the execution and delivery and the
performance of the terms of any Notes and of each Guaranty will be, within the corporate powers of each Borrower party thereto, have been or will have been (as appropriate) duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, have, or will have,
received (as appropriate) all necessary governmental approval, if any (which approval, if any, remains in full force and effect), and do not contravene any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of any Borrower party thereto, or do
not contravene any law or any contractual restriction binding on any Borrower party thereto, except where such contravention would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
          
   32   

(c)  
   Enforceability . This Agreement and the Notes, if any, when duly executed and delivered by each Borrower party thereto, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of
such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, and each Guaranty, when duly executed and delivered by TBC, will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of TBC, enforceable against TBC in
accordance with its terms, subject to general equitable principles and except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to
creditors  rights.         

(d)  
   No Material Pending or Threatened Actions . In TBC s opinion, there are no pending or threatened actions or proceedings before any court or administrative agency
(i) other than as disclosed in TBC s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse affect on the financial condition or operations of the Company which is likely to materially
impair the ability of the Company to repay the Advances or (ii) which would affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Advances.         

(e)  
   Consolidated Statements . The Consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2006 and the related Consolidated statement of earnings and retained
earnings for the year then ended (copies of which have been furnished to each Lender) correctly set forth the Consolidated financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries as of such date and the result of the Consolidated operations for such year.
The Consolidated statement of financial position as of September 30, 2007 and the related Consolidated statement of earnings and retained earnings for the nine month period then ended (copies of which have been furnished to each Lender)
correctly set forth, subject to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries as of such date and the result of the Consolidated operations for such nine month period.         

(f)  
   Regulation U . No Borrower is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U issued by
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Following application
of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets (either of any Borrower only or of each Borrower and its subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or subject to any
restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between any Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender relating to Debt within the scope of Section 6.1(d) will be margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System).         

(g)  
   Investment Company Act . No Borrower is an  investment company,  or an  affiliated person  of, or  promoter  or  principal underwriter 
for, an  investment company,  as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Neither the making of any Advances, nor the application of the proceeds or repayment thereof by any Borrower, nor the consummation
of the other transactions contemplated hereby, will violate any provision of such Act or any rule, regulation or order of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.         

(h)  
   No Material Adverse Change . Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, there has been no material adverse change in
the Company s financial condition or results of operations since December 31, 2006 that is likely to impair the ability of the Company to repay the Advances.           
   33   

ARTICLE 4        Covenants of TBC        

4.1  
   Affirmative Covenants of TBC . From the date of this Agreement and so long as any amount is payable by a Borrower to any Lender hereunder or any Commitment is outstanding, TBC
will:         

(a)  
   Periodic Reports . Furnish to the Lenders:         

(1)  
  within 60 days after the close of each of the first three quarters of each of TBC s fiscal years, a Consolidated statement of financial position of TBC and the Subsidiaries as
of the end of such quarter and a Consolidated comparative statement of earnings and retained earnings of TBC and the Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, each
certified by an authorized officer of TBC,         

(2)  
  within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, and with respect to any quarter thereof, if requested in writing by the Majority Lenders (with a copy to the
Agent), within 60 days after the later of (x) the close of any of the first three quarters thereof subject of such request and (y) such request, a statement certified by an authorized officer of TBC showing in detail the computations
required by the provisions of Sections 4.2(a) and 4.2(b), based on the figures which appear on the books of account of TBC and the Subsidiaries at the close of such quarters,         

(3)  
  within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, a copy of the annual audit report of TBC, certified by independent public accountants of nationally recognized
standing, together with financial statements consisting of a Consolidated statement of financial position of TBC and the Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and a Consolidated statement of earnings and retained earnings of TBC and the
Subsidiaries for such fiscal year,         

(4)  
  within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, a statement certified by the independent public accountants who shall have prepared the corresponding audit
report furnished to the Lenders pursuant to the provisions of clause (3) of this subsection (a), to the effect that, in the course of preparing such audit report, such accountants had obtained no knowledge, except as specifically stated, that
TBC had been in violation of the provisions of any one of Sections 4.2(a), 4.2(b), 4.2(c) and 4.2(d), at any time during such fiscal year,         

(5)  
  promptly upon their becoming available, all financial statements, reports and proxy statements which TBC sends to its stockholders,         

(6)  
  promptly upon their becoming available, all regular and periodic financial reports which TBC or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national
securities exchange,         

(7)  
  within 3 Business Days after the discovery of the occurrence of any event which constitutes a Default, notice of such occurrence together with a detailed statement by a responsible
officer of TBC of the steps being taken by TBC or the appropriate Subsidiary to cure the effect of such event, and         

(8)  
  such other information respecting the financial condition and operations of TBC or the Subsidiaries as the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.     
     
   34   

In lieu of furnishing the Lenders the items referred to in clauses (1), (3), (5) and (6) above,
the Company may make available such items on the Company s website at  www.boeing.com , at  www.sec.gov  or at such other website as notified to the Agent and the Lenders.       

(b)  
   Payment of Taxes ,  Etc . Duly pay and discharge, and cause each Subsidiary duly to pay and discharge, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges upon it or
against its properties prior to a date which is 5 Business Days after the date on which penalties are attached thereto, except and to the extent only that the same shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings by TBC or the
appropriate Subsidiary.         

(c)  
   Insurance . Maintain, and cause each Subsidiary to maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies or associations, insurance of the kinds, covering the
risks and in the relative proportionate amounts usually carried by companies engaged in businesses similar to that of TBC or such Subsidiary, except, to the extent consistent with good business practices, such insurance may be provided by TBC
through its program of self insurance.         

(d)  
   Corporate Existence . Preserve and maintain its corporate existence.         

(e)  
   Material Compliance With Laws . Comply, and cause each Subsidiary to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws (including ERISA and applicable environmental
laws), except to the extent that failure to so comply would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Company.         

4.2  
   General Negative Covenants of TBC . From the date of this Agreement and so long as any amount shall be payable by TBC or any other Borrower to any Lender hereunder or any
Commitment shall be outstanding, TBC will not:         

(a)  
   Mortgages ,  Liens ,  Etc . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance (including the lien
or retained security title of a conditional vendor) upon or with respect to any of its Property, Plant and Equipment, or upon or with respect to the Property, Plant and Equipment of any Subsidiary, or assign or otherwise convey, or permit any
Subsidiary to assign or otherwise convey, any right to receive income from or with respect to its Property, Plant and Equipment, except         

(1)  
  liens in connection with workmen s compensation, unemployment insurance or other social security obligations;         

(2)  
  liens securing the performance of bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, liens to secure
progress or partial payments made to TBC or such Subsidiary and other liens of like nature made in the ordinary course of business;         

(3)  
  mechanics , workmen s, materialmen s or other like liens arising in the ordinary course of business in respect of obligations which are not due or which are being
contested in good faith;         

(4)  
  liens for taxes not yet due or being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings by TBC or the affected Subsidiary;         

(5)  
  liens which arise in connection with the leasing of equipment in the ordinary course of business;           
   35   

(6)  
  liens on Property, Plant and Equipment owned by TBC or any Subsidiary of TBC existing on September 30, 2006;         

(7)  
  liens on assets of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC or at the time of purchase, lease, or acquisition of the
property or Voting Stock of such Person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety by TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC, whether or not any Debt secured by such liens is assumed by TBC or such Subsidiary,  provided  that such liens are not created
in anticipation of such purchase, lease, acquisition or merger;         

(8)  
  liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary of TBC owing to TBC or to another Subsidiary;         

(9)  
  liens on assets existing at the time of acquisition of such property by TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC or purchase money liens to secure the payment of all or part of the purchase price
of property upon acquisition of such assets by TBC or such Subsidiary or to secure any Debt incurred or guaranteed by TBC or a Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of the acquisition, completion or construction
(including any improvements on existing property), or commencement of full operation, of such property, which Debt is incurred or guaranteed solely for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction or
improvements thereon;  provided ,  however , that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the lien shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by TBC or such Subsidiary other than, in the case of such
construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement made is located;         

(10)  
  liens securing obligations of TBC or a Subsidiary incurred in conjunction with industrial revenue bonds or other instruments utilized in connection with incentive structures for tax
purposes issued for the benefit of TBC or a Subsidiary in connection with any Property, Plant and Equipment used by TBC or a Subsidiary;         

(11)  
  any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any lien referred to in the foregoing;  provided , 
however , that the principal amount of Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or
any part of the property that secured the lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements and construction on such property); and         

(12)  
  other liens, charges and encumbrances, so long as the aggregate amount of the Consolidated Debt for which all such liens, charges and encumbrances serve as security does not exceed
15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.         

(b)  
   Consolidated Debt . Permit Consolidated Debt (subject to Section 4.3) to be at any time more than 60% of Total Capital, where   Total Capital   means the
sum of shareholders  equity and Consolidated Debt, provided that any accumulated other comprehensive income and loss will be excluded.         

(c)  
   Payment in Violation of an Agreement . Make any payment, or permit any Subsidiary to make any payment, of principal or interest, on any Debt which payment would constitute a
violation of the terms of this Agreement or of the terms of any indenture or agreement binding on such corporation or to which such corporation is a party except, in the case of any payment made by a Subsidiary, to the extent such payment is not
likely to impair the ability of TBC to repay the Advances.           
   36   

(d)  
   Merger or Consolidation . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions)
all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person except that TBC may merge or consolidate with any Person so long as TBC is the surviving corporation and no Default has occurred and is continuing or
would result therefrom, and except that any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TBC may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, TBC or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of TBC,  provided , in each case, that no Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.         

4.3  
   Financial Statement Terms . For purposes of Section 4.2(b), (a) all accounting terms shall exclude amounts attributable to Boeing Capital Services Corporation and
its Subsidiaries and Boeing Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation; and (b) Total Capital shall exclude the effects of (i) any merger-related accounting adjustments which are attributable to the merger with or acquisition of
McDonnell Douglas Corporation by TBC and (ii) any repurchase by TBC of its common stock.         

4.4  
     Waivers of Covenants . The departure by TBC or any Subsidiary from the requirements of any of the provisions of this Article 4 shall be permitted only if such departure
has been consented to in advance in a writing signed by the Majority Lenders, and such writing shall be effective as a consent only to the specific departure described in such writing. Such departure by TBC or any Subsidiary when properly consented
to by the Majority Lenders shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.1(c).         ARTICLE 5    
   Conditions Precedent to Borrowings        

5.1  
   Conditions Precedent to the Initial Borrowing of TBC . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance to TBC is subject to receipt by the Agent on or before the day
of the initial Borrowing of all of the following, each dated as of the day hereof, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel:         

(a)  
   Documentation . Copies of all documents, certified by an officer of TBC, evidencing necessary corporate action by TBC and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this
Agreement, to the Notes, if any, and to Guaranties to be delivered by TBC pursuant to Section 5.4(e);         

(b)  
   Officer s Certificate . A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC which certifies the names of the officers of TBC authorized to sign the Notes, if
any, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, together with true specimen signatures of such officers and facsimile signatures of officers authorized to sign by facsimile signature (on which certificate each Lender may conclusively rely
until it receives a further certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC canceling or amending the prior certificate and submitting specimen signatures of the officers named in such further certificate);         

(c)  
   Opinion of Company Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel for TBC substantially in the form of Exhibit G and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably
request, which opinion TBC hereby expressly instructs such counsel to prepare and deliver;         

(d)  
   Opinion of Agent s Counsel . A favorable opinion of Shearman   Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit H;
          
   37   

(e)  
   Termination of 2006 Credit Agreement . TBC shall have terminated in whole the commitments of the banks parties to the 2006 Credit Agreement; and         

(f)  
   Satisfaction of 2006 Credit Agreement Obligations . TBC and its Subsidiaries shall have satisfied all of their respective obligations under the 2006 Credit Agreement
including, without limitation, the payment of all fees under such agreement.         

5.2  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Committed Borrowing of TBC . The obligation of each Lender to make a Committed Advance on the occasion of each Committed Borrowing (including the
initial Borrowing) is subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of the request for a Committed Borrowing and on the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be true, and both the giving of the applicable Notice of
Committed Borrowing and the acceptance by TBC of the proceeds of such Committed Borrowing shall be a representation by TBC that:         

(a)  
  the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 (other than clause (i) of subsection (d) thereof) are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date); and         

(b)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing, which constitutes a Default.         

5.3    
     Conditions Precedent to Each Bid Borrowing of TBC . The obligation of any Lender to make a Bid Advance on the occasion of a Bid Borrowing (including the initial
Borrowing) is subject to the further conditions precedent that:         

(a)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . The Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Bid Borrowing with respect thereto;         

(b)  
   Bid Notes . On or before the date of such Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each
of the one or more Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Bid
Advance in accordance with Section 2.5;         

(c)  
   Periodic Reports . Each Lender intending to make a Bid Advance shall have received the statements provided (or deemed provided) by TBC pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(1),
(2) and (3); and         

(d)  
   Representations . On the date of such request and the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of
Borrowing and the acceptance by TBC of the proceeds of such Bid Borrowing shall be a representation by TBC that:         

(i)  
  the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as
of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date); and         

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Bid Borrowing, which constitutes a Default.           
   38   

5.4  
   Conditions Precedent to the Initial Borrowing of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance to any particular Subsidiary Borrower is
subject to the receipt by the Agent, on or before the day of the initial Borrowing by such Subsidiary Borrower, of all of the following, each dated on or prior to the day of the initial Borrowing, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and
its counsel:         

(a)  
   Borrower Subsidiary Letter . A Borrower Subsidiary Letter, substantially in the form of Exhibit D, executed by such Subsidiary Borrower and TBC;         

(b)  
   Documentation . Copies of all documents, certified by an officer of the Subsidiary Borrower, evidencing necessary corporate action by the Subsidiary Borrower and governmental
approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and any Notes;         

(c)  
   Officer s Certificate . A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC or the Subsidiary Borrower which certifies the names of the officers of the
Subsidiary Borrower authorized to sign the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, together with true specimen signatures of such officers and facsimile signatures of officers authorized to sign by facsimile signature (on which
certificate each Lender may conclusively rely until it receives a further certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC or the Subsidiary Borrower canceling or amending the prior certificate and submitting signatures of the officers
named in such further certificate);         

(d)  
   Opinion of Subsidiary Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel to the Subsidiary Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit I and as to such other matters as the
Agent may reasonably request; and         

(e)  
   TBC Guaranty . A Guaranty of TBC that unconditionally guarantees the payment of all obligations of such Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under the Notes of such Subsidiary
Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit J, executed and delivered by TBC to the Agent; and         

(f)  
   Opinion of TBC Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel to TBC, substantially in the form of Exhibit K and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably
request.         

5.5  
     Conditions Precedent to Each Committed Borrowing of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of each Lender to make a Committed Advance to a Subsidiary Borrower on the
occasion of each Committed Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) is subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of the request for such Committed Borrowing and the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be
true, and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Committed Borrowing and the acceptance by such Subsidiary Borrower of the proceeds of such Committed Borrowing shall be (a) a representation by such Subsidiary Borrower that:

(i)  
  the representations and warranties of that Subsidiary Borrower contained (A) in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of
each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and (B) in its Borrower Subsidiary Letter are true and correct on and as of the date of
such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing; and         

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing, which constitutes a Default;           
   39   

and (b) a representation by TBC that the representations and warranties of TBC contained in
subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date),
and that, as of each such date, no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing, which constitutes a Default.       

5.6  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Bid Borrowing of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of any Lender to make a Bid Advance to any particular Subsidiary Borrower on the occasion
of each Bid Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) is subject to the further conditions precedent that:         

(a)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . The Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Bid Borrowing with respect thereto;         

(b)  
   Bid Notes . On or before the date of such Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each
of the one or more Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Bid
Advance in accordance with Section 2.5;         

(c)  
   Periodic Reports . Each Lender intending to make a Bid Advance shall have received the statements provided (or deemed provided) by TBC pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(1),
(2) and (3); and         

(d)  
   Subsidiary Representations . On the date of such request and the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable
Notice of Bid Borrowing and the acceptance by the Subsidiary of the proceeds of such Bid Borrowing shall be (a) a representation by such Subsidiary Borrower that:         

(i)  
  the representations and warranties contained (A) in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 hereof with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and (B) in its Borrower Subsidiary Letter are true and correct on
and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing; and         

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Bid Borrowing which constitutes a Default.         

(e)  
   TBC Representation . A representation by TBC that the representations and warranties of TBC contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and that, as of each such date, no event has occurred and is
continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing which constitutes a Default.           
   40   

ARTICLE 6        Events of Default        

6.1    
     Events of Default . Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:         

(a)  
  Failure by TBC to make when due any payment of principal of or interest on any Advance or under a Guaranty when the same becomes due and payable and such failure is not remedied
within 5 Business Days thereafter;         

(b)  
  Any representation or warranty made by TBC in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Borrowings or any Guaranty, or otherwise furnished pursuant hereto
proves to have been incorrect when made in any material respect;         

(c)  
  Failure by TBC to perform any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement, and such failure is not remedied within 30 days after written notice thereof has been
given to TBC by the Agent, at the request, or with the consent, of the Majority Lenders;         

(d)  
  Failure by TBC to pay when due (i) any obligation for the payment of borrowed money on any regularly scheduled payment date or following acceleration thereof or (ii) any
other monetary obligation if, in the case of either of clauses (i) or (ii), the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the obligations with respect to which such failure to pay or acceleration occurred equals or exceeds $150,000,000 and such
failure is not remedied within 5 Business Days after TBC receives notice thereof from the Agent or the creditor on such obligation;         

(e)  
  TBC or any of its Subsidiaries         

(B)  
  otherwise under Title IV of ERISA as a result of any reportable event within the meaning of ERISA (other than a reportable event as to which the provision of 30 days  notice is
waived under applicable regulations);         

(3)  
  incurs liability under Title IV of ERISA         

(A)  
  in excess of $150,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Person that is a member of the  controlled group  (as defined in
Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA) of the Company or any Subsidiary having filed a notice of intent to terminate any employee pension benefit plan under the  distress termination  provision of Section 4041 of ERISA, or

(B)  
  in excess of $150,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation having instituted proceedings to terminate, or to have a trustee appointed to
administer, any such plan;         

(f)  
  The happening of any of the following events, provided such event has not then been cured or stayed:         

(1)  
  the cessation by TBC of the payment of its Debts as they mature,         

(2)  
  the making of an assignment for the benefit of the creditors of TBC,           
   41   

(3)  
  the appointment of a trustee or receiver or liquidator for TBC or for a substantial part of its property, or         

(4)  
  the institution of bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or similar proceedings by or against TBC under the laws of any jurisdiction in which TBC is organized or has
material business, operations or assets and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in
such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or any substantial part of its property and assets) shall occur; or

(g)  
  So long as any Subsidiary is a Borrower hereunder, the Guaranty with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower for any reason ceases to be valid and binding on TBC or TBC so states in
writing.         

6.2  
   Lenders  Rights upon Borrower Default . If an Event of Default occurs or is continuing, then the Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority
Lenders, by notice to TBC,         

(a)  
  declare the obligation of each Lender to make further Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and         

(b)  
  declare the Advances, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest, and all
such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers,  provided ,  however , that in the event of an
actual entry or, in the case of the institution by the Borrower of a proceeding described in Section 6.1(f)(4), a deemed entry, of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (whether in connection with a
voluntary or an involuntary case), (i) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (ii) the payment obligations of the Borrowers with respect to Advances, all such interest, and all such amounts
shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.         ARTICLE 7        The Agent        

7.1  
   Authorization and Action . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as
are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including without limitation, enforcement or collection of any Notes),
the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Lenders
or as otherwise required by Section 8.1(b) and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of interests in Advances;  provided ,  however , that the Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes
the Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrowers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Agent further
agrees to make a request pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(8) at the request of any Lender, and to share such requested information with the Lenders.           
   42   

7.2  
     Agent s Reliance, Etc . Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it
or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:         

(a)  
  may treat the Lender that made any Advance as the payee thereof until the Agent receives and accepts an assignment entered into by such Lender, as assignor, and an Eligible
Assignee, as assignee, as provided in Section 2.20;         

(b)  
  may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrowers), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or
omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or other experts;         

(c)  
  makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or
in connection with this Agreement;         

(d)  
  shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of any Borrower or
to inspect the property (including the books and records) of any Borrower;         

(e)  
  shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or
document furnished pursuant hereto; and         

(f)  
  shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier, cable or
telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.         

7.3  
   Citibank, N.A. and its Affiliates . With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it, and any Notes issued to it, Citibank, N.A. shall have the same rights and powers
under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent hereunder; and the term  Lender  or  Lenders  shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include Citibank, N.A., in its
individual capacity. Citibank, N.A. and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, accept drafts drawn by, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Company, any of its Subsidiaries and
any person or entity who may do business with or own securities of the Company or any Subsidiary, all as if Citibank, N.A. were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the other Lenders.         

7.4  
   Lender Credit Decision . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements
referred to in Section 3.1(e) and the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.1 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.
Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in
taking or not taking action under this Agreement.           
   43   

7.5    
     Indemnification . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by TBC or any other Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal
amounts of the Committed Advances then outstanding made by each of them (or if no Committed Advances are at the time outstanding or if interests in any Committed Advances are held by Persons which are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective
amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or
asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the   Indemnified Costs  ),  provided  that no Lender shall be
liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any
out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of,
or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by TBC or any other Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to
any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.5 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.         

7.6  
   Successor Agent . The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and TBC and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority
Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of TBC (if no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), which shall not be unreasonably withheld, to appoint a successor Agent, which
shall be a commercial bank organized or licensed under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If no successor Agent has been so appointed by the Majority
Lenders, and has accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent s giving of notice of resignation or the removal of the retiring Agent as provided herein, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a
successor Agent which meets the requirements set out in the previous sentence. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights,
powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Agent s resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this
Article 7 shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement.         

7.7  
     Certain Obligations May Be Performed by Affiliates . The Agent may appoint any of its Affiliates to perform its obligations hereunder other than any obligation
requiring the Agent to receive, pay, or otherwise handle funds or Notes, and  provided  that the Agent shall continue to be responsible to the Borrowers and the Lenders for the due performance of the Agent s obligations under this
Agreement.         

7.8  
   Other Agents . Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the documentation agent, syndication agent nor any other Lender designated as any  Agent  (other than the
Agent) on the signature pages hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.           
   44   

ARTICLE 8        Miscellaneous        

8.1  
   Modification, Consents and Waivers .         

(a)  
   Waiver . No failure or delay on the part of any Lender in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise
of any such right or power preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power hereunder. No notice to or demand on the Borrowers in any case shall entitle the Borrowers to any other or further notice or demand
in similar or other circumstances.         

(b)  
   Amendment . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any Committed Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom, shall in any event be
effective unless such amendment, waiver or consent is in writing and signed by the Company and the Majority Lenders, and then such amendment, waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given;  provided ,  however , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following:         

(i)  
  waive any of the conditions specified in Section 5.1 or 5.4,         

(ii)  
  except as provided in Section 2.19 or Section 2.21, increase the Commitments of the Lenders or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations,     

(iii)  
  reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Committed Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder,         

(iv)  
  except as provided in Section 2.21, postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Committed Advances or any fees or other amounts payable
hereunder,         

(v)  
  change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Committed Advances or the number of Lenders required for the Lenders or any of them to
take any action hereunder,         

(vi)  
  amend this Section 8.1, or         

(vii)  
  release TBC from any of its obligations under any Guaranty or limit the liability of TBC as guarantor thereunder;        and  provided   further  that no amendment, waiver, or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders
required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note.       

(c)  
   Majority Lenders . Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.1 shall not affect the provisions of Section 4.4,  Waivers of Covenants , or Article 6,
 Events of Default .         

(a)  
   Addresses . All communications and notices provided for hereunder shall be in writing and mailed, telecopied, telexed or delivered and,        if to the Agent,      Citibank,
N.A.      Two Penns Way, Suite 200      New Castle, Delaware 19720      Attention: Bank Loans Syndications Department      facsimile number (212) 994 0961;         
   45   

if to any Borrower,      care of The Boeing Company      100 N. Riverside      Mail Code: 5003 3648      Chicago, Illinois 60606      Attention: Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Finance and Banking      facsimile number
(312) 544-2399      if to any Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office; or,      as to each party, at such other address as designated by such party in a written notice to each other party referring specifically to this Agreement.

(b)  
   Effectiveness of Notices . All communications and notices shall, when mailed, telecopied, or telexed, be effective when deposited in the mail, telecopied, or confirmed by
telex answerback, respectively. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Notes or of any Exhibit to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart thereof.         

(c)  
   Electronic Mail . Electronic mail may be used to distribute routine communications, such as financial statements and other information, and documents to be signed by the
parties hereto;  provided ,  however , that no Notice of Borrowing, signature, or other notice or document intended to be legally binding shall be effective if sent by electronic mail.         

(d)  
   Internet Distributions .         

(1)  
  So long as Citibank or any of its Affiliates is the Agent, such materials as may be agreed between the Borrowers and the Agent may be delivered to the Agent in an electronic medium
in a format acceptable to the Agent and the Lenders by e-mail at oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com. The Borrowers agree that the Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating
to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the   Communications  ) available to the Lenders by posting
such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the   Platform  ). The Borrowers acknowledge that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are
confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided  as is  and  as available  and (iii) neither the Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or
completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any
warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.

(2)  
    Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a   Notice  ) specifying that any Communications have been posted to the
Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for  
          
   46   

purposes of this Agreement;  provided  that if requested by any Lender the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or
telecopier. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lender s e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a
party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.          

8.3  
   Costs, Expenses and Taxes .         

(a)  
  TBC shall pay upon written request all reasonable costs and expenses in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, modification and amendment requested by any of the
Borrowers of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties (including, without limitation, printing costs and the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Agent) and costs and expenses, if any, in connection with the enforcement
of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise and including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel), as well as any and all stamp and other
taxes, and to save the Lenders and other holders of interests in the Advances or any Notes harmless from any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay by or omission of the Borrowers to pay such taxes, if any, which may be
payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties.         

(b)  
  TBC agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an   Indemnified
Party  ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities, penalties and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in
each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the Advances, this Agreement, the
Notes, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense resulted from such Indemnified Party s gross negligence or
willful misconduct and except that no Indemnified Party shall have the right to be indemnified hereunder to the extent such indemnification relates to relationships of, between or among each of, or any of, the Agent, the Lenders, any assignee of a
Lender or any participant. In the case of any investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which this Section 8.3 applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by TBC, its
directors, shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or an Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Borrowers also agree not to assert any
claim on any theory of liability for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, arising out of or
otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of Advances.         

(c)  
  Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.13, 2.14 and 8.3
shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes for a period of seven years.         

8.4  
   Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Agent, and their respective successors and assigns, except
that the Borrowers may not assign or transfer their rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the Lenders.           
   47   

8.5  
     Severability . Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of
such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.

8.6  
   Governing Law . This Agreement, any Notes, the Guaranties and each Borrower Subsidiary Letter shall be deemed to be contracts under the laws of the State of New York and for
all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State.         

8.7  
   Headings . The Table of Contents and Article and Section headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.

8.8  
   Execution in Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.         

8.9  
   Right of Set-Off . Each Lender and each of its Affiliates that is or was at one time a Lender hereunder is authorized at any time and from time to time, upon

(i)  
  the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and         

(ii)  
  the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.2 to authorize the Agent to declare any Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.2,        to the fullest extent permitted by law, without notice to any Borrower (any such notice being expressly
waived by each Borrower), to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the
account of any Borrower against any and all of the obligations to such Lender or such Affiliate of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Notes held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender has made a demand under
this Agreement or such Notes and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender shall promptly notify any Borrower after any such setoff and application made by such Lender,  provided  that the failure to give such notice shall not
affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of setoff) which such Lender and its Affiliates may have.

8.10  
   Confidentiality . Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other Person without the consent of a Borrower, other than

(a)  
  to the Agent s or such Lender s Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives and advisors ( Permitted Parties ) and their
respective professional advisors and, as contemplated by Section 2.21(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants and their respective agents and advisors, and then only on a confidential basis,         

(b)  
  as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process,           
   48   

(c)  
  any rating agency, or direct or indirect provider of credit protection to any Permitted Party, and then only on a confidential basis; and         

(d)  
  as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign regulatory, supervisory, governmental or quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction over a Permitted Party or examiner
regulating banks or banking or other financial institutions.         

8.11  
   Agreement in Effect . This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution and delivery, respectively, to the Agent and TBC by TBC and the Agent, and when the Agent shall
have been notified by each Lender listed on Schedule I that such Lender has executed it.         

8.12  
   Patriot Act Notice . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of Section 326
of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub.L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) and the promulgated regulations thereto (the   Patriot Act  ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each
Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. Each Borrower shall provide, to
the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.     

(a)  
  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal
court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment,
and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such
federal court. The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower at
its address specified pursuant to Section 8.2. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other
manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.         

(b)  
  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the
laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.           
   49   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their officers
thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.        

THE BOEING COMPANY   

By  

Title:  
     
  Assistant Treasurer   

CITIBANK, N.A., Individually and as Agent   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Syndication Agent    

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Documentation Agents    

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

364-Day Credit Agreement   

THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD. SEATTLE BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Lenders    

BARCLAYS BANK PLC   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

BNP PARIBAS   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

CREDIT SUISSE, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

MORGAN STANLEY BANK    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORPORATION (Recourse only to assets of William Street Commitment Corporation)    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK, NEW YORK BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA   

By  

Name:  

Title:  

STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA S.A.   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

COMERICA BANK    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

ING BANK N.V., DUBLIN BRANCH    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LIMITED    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

BMO CAPITAL MARKETS FINANCING, INC.    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A.   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

SOCIETE GENERALE   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

U.S. BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

WESTPAC BANKING CORPORATION    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

</EX-10.I>

<EX-10.II>
 3
 dex10ii.htm
 5-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT

5-Year Credit Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10(ii)        THE BOEING COMPANY        FIVE-YEAR        CREDIT AGREEMENT       among      THE BOEING COMPANY      for itself and on behalf of its Subsidiaries,      as a Borrower      THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO
     CITIBANK, N.A.,      as
Administrative Agent      JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.      as Syndication Agent      and      CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.      and      J.P.MORGAN SECURITIES INC.,      as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers   
  dated as of November 16, 2007   

TABLE OF CONTENTS         
       
   i   

ii   

Exhibit A-1   
      
  -  
        
  Committed Note   
 
    Exhibit A-2   
      
  -  
        
  Bid Note   
 
    Exhibit B-1   
      
  -  
        
  Notice of Committed Borrowing   
 
    Exhibit B-2   
      
  -  
        
  Notice of Bid Borrowing   
 
    Exhibit C   
      
  -  
        
  Request for Alteration   
 
    Exhibit D   
      
  -  
        
  Borrower Subsidiary Letter   
 
    Exhibit E   
      
  -  
        
  Extension Request   
 
    Exhibit F   
      
  -  
        
  Continuation Notice   
 
    Exhibit G   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel of the Company   
 
    Exhibit H   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel for Agent   
 
    Exhibit I   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of in-house counsel to Subsidiary Borrower   
 
    Exhibit J   
      
  -  
        
  Guaranty of TBC   
 
    Exhibit K   
      
  -  
        
  Opinion of Counsel to TBC   

Schedule I   
      
  -  
        
  Commitments   
       
   iii   

CREDIT AGREEMENT       Dated as of November 16, 2007      THE BOEING COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (  TBC   or the
  Company  ), for itself and on behalf of the other BORROWERS (as defined below), the LENDERS (as defined below), CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. and J.P.MORGAN SECURITIES INC., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, JPMORGAN
CHASE BANK, N.A., as syndication agent, and CITIBANK, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the   Agent  ), agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1        Definitions       1.1  Definitions . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the respective meanings set out below:        2006 Credit Agreement   means the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2006, by and among TBC, Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, and certain other banks as lenders.        Advance   means a Committed Advance or a Bid Advance.        Agent   means Citibank, N.A. acting in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders, or any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to
Section 7.6.        Agent s Account   means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent with Citibank, N.A., at its office at 388
Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account 36852248, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications.        Affiliate   means, as to any Person, any
other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person. (For purposes of this definition, the term  controls ,  controlling ,
 controlled by  and  under common control with  mean, with respect to a Person, the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 5% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract, or otherwise.)        Agreement   means this
agreement, as it may be amended or otherwise modified from time to time, and any written additions or supplements hereto.        Applicable Lending
Office   means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender s Domestic Lending Office, in the case of a Base Rate Advance, and such Lender s Eurodollar Lending Office, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, and, in the case of a
Bid Advance, the office of such Lender specified by such Lender in a notice to the Agent as its Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Bid Advance.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  

Applicable Letter of Credit Commissions   means, for any date, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the
then-applicable rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:       

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Letter of Credit Commission   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.150  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.200  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.250  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.300  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.400  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.650  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission will be based on the two ratings at the same
level, (ii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings,
(iii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and
(iv) each of the three ratings fall within different levels, then the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized
statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in writing by the Majority Lenders, the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission for each period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the
Applicable Letter of Credit Commission in effect immediately prior to such ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the
Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use good faith efforts to reach such agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable
Letter of Credit Commission thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be (a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Letter of
Credit Commission in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission as set forth under Level VI above.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  2  

Applicable Margin   means,       

(i)  
  with respect to Base Rate Advances, 0% per annum; and         

(ii)  
  with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances for any date, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the then-applicable rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating
of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:         

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Margin   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.060  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.100  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.140  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.180  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.270  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.425  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the two ratings at the same level, (ii) two
of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the ratings are at the same
level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Margin will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall within different levels, then
the Applicable Margin will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in writing by the Majority
Lenders, the Applicable Margin for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such ratings becoming
unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use good faith efforts to reach such
agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Margin thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be (a) if any such rating has
become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Applicable Margin as set forth under Level VI
above.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  3  

Applicable Percentage   means, for any date, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the then-applicable
rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating of the long-term senior unsecured debt of TBC then in effect:       

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Percentage   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.040  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.060  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.070  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.080  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.125  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the two ratings at the same level,
(ii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the
ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Percentage will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall
within different levels, then the Applicable Percentage will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in
writing by the Majority Lenders, the Applicable Percentage for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Percentage in effect immediately prior to
such ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use good faith
efforts to reach such agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Percentage thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be
(a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Percentage in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Applicable
Percentage as set forth under Level VI above.        Applicable Utilization Fee   means, for any date that the aggregate principal amount of
outstanding Advances exceed 50% of the aggregate Commitments, a fluctuating per annum rate equal to the         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  4  

then-applicable rate set forth in the pricing grid below, depending upon the rating of the long-term senior unsecured
debt of TBC then in effect:       

Level    
      
     Public Debt Rating: S P, Moody s and Fitch    
      
   Applicable Utilization Fee   

Level I   
      
  AA- by S P, Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by Fitch or above  
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level II   
      
    less than Level I     but at least A+ by S P, A1 by
Moody s or A+ by Fitch or above   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level III   
      
    less than Level II     but at least A by S P, A2 by
Moody s or A by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level IV   
      
    less than Level III     but at least A- by S P, A3 by
Moody s or A- by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level V   
      
    less than Level IV     but at least BBB+ by S P, Baa1
by Moody s or BBB+ by Fitch   
      
  0.050  
  %   
 
   Level VI   
      
  less than Level V  
      
  0.100  
  %   
     provided ,  however , that if the ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch fall
within different levels, (i) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the two ratings at the same level,
(ii) two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) two of the
ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, the Applicable Utilization Fee will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings and (iv) each of the three ratings fall
within different levels, then the Applicable Utilization Fee will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings, and       provided   further  that if, at any time, no rating is available from S P, Moody s and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by TBC and approved in
writing by the Majority Lenders, the Applicable Utilization Fee for each Interest Period or each other period commencing during the thirty days following such ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Applicable Utilization Fee in effect immediately
prior to such ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from S P, Moody s and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between TBC and the Majority Lenders, and TBC and the Majority Lenders shall use
good faith efforts to reach such agreement within such thirty-day period,  provided ,  however , that if no such agreement is reached within such thirty-day period the Applicable Utilization Fee thereafter, until such agreement is reached,
shall be (a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S P, Moody s or Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Applicable Utilization Fee in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise,
the Applicable Utilization Fee as set forth under Level VI above.        Available Amount   of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the
maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing).         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  5  

Available Commitments   means, as of any date of determination, (a) the aggregate Commitments of
the Lenders, as such amount may be reduced, changed or terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, reduced by (b) the aggregate Advances outstanding on such date of determination.        Base Rate   means the higher of (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank, N.A., in New York City, from time to time, as
Citibank s  base  rate and (b) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50% per annum.        Base Rate Advance   means a
Committed Advance which bears interest at the Base Rate.        Bid Advance   means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Bid
Borrowing resulting from the auction bidding procedure described in Section 2.6, and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, each of which shall be a  Type  of Bid Advance.        Bid Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offers to make one or more Bid Advances as part
of such borrowing has been accepted by a Borrower under the auction bidding procedure described in Section 2.6.        Bid Note   means a
promissory note of a Borrower payable to the order of a Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2, evidencing the indebtedness of that Borrower to such Lender resulting from a Bid Advance made by such Lender to such Borrower.        Borrower   means, individually and collectively, as the context requires, TBC and each Subsidiary Borrower (unless and until it becomes a
 Terminated Subsidiary Borrower  pursuant to Section 2.23).        Borrower Subsidiary Letter   means, with respect to any
Subsidiary Borrower, a letter in the form of Exhibit D, signed by such Subsidiary Borrower and TBC.        Borrowing   means a Committed
Borrowing or a Bid Borrowing.        Business Day   means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York
City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advance, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.        Commitment   means, for each Lender, the full amount set forth opposite the name of such Lender in Schedule I or, if such Lender is a Replacement Lender or a Lender that has entered into one or more assignments pursuant to
Section 2.21 or 2.22, the amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 2.21(d), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.4, Section 2.9 or Section 2.20 or increased
pursuant to Section 2.20.        Committed Advance   means an advance made by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Committed Borrowing and
refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance, each of which is a  Type  of Committed Advance.        Committed
Borrowing   means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.1 or Section 2.3.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  6  

Committed Note   means a promissory note of a Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, in
substantially the form of Exhibit A-1, evidencing the indebtedness of that Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Committed Advances made by such Lender to that Borrower.        Company   means The Boeing Company, a Delaware corporation.        Confidential Information  
means information that a Borrower furnishes to the Agent or any Lender in a writing designated as confidential, but does not include any such information that is or becomes generally available to the public or that is or becomes available to the
Agent or such Lender from a source other than a Borrower.        Consolidated   refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.        Consolidated Net Tangible Assets   means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves
and other properly deductible items) after, deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the
time as of which the amount thereof is being computed), and (ii) all good will, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expenses and other like intangibles, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of the
Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.        Continuing Lender  
has the meaning specified in Section 2.22(a).        Convert  ,   Conversion   and   Converted   each means a
conversion of Committed Advances of one Type into Committed Advances of another Type pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.12 or 2.16.        Debt  
of a Person means       

(i)  
  indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services;         

(ii)  
  financial obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments;         

(iii)  
  financial obligations as lessee under leases which have been or should be, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, recorded as capital leases; and

(iv)  
  obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against
loss in respect of, indebtedness or financial obligations of others of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) above.          Default   means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.        Domestic Lending Office   means with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its  Domestic Lending Office  opposite its name on Schedule I, or in the assignment or
other agreement pursuant to which it became a Lender or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to TBC and the Agent.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  7  

Effective Date   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(d).        Eligible Assignee   means       

(i)  
  a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any state thereof, and having a combined capital and surplus in excess of $3,000,000,000;

(ii)  
  a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the OECD, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having a combined capital and
surplus in excess of $3,000,000,000,  provided  that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in either (a) the country in which it is organized or (b) another country which is also a member of the OECD or the Cayman
Islands;         

(iii)  
  the central bank of any country which is a member of the OECD;         

(iv)  
  any Lender;         

(v)  
  an Affiliate of any Lender; or         

(vi)  
  any other Person approved in writing, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, by TBC, which approval has been communicated in writing to the Agent, and
approved by each Issuing Bank,  provided  that neither TBC nor an Affiliate of TBC shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.          ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.        Eurocurrency Liabilities   has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.        Eurodollar Lending Office   means, with respect to any Lender, (a) the office of such Lender specified as its  Eurodollar Lending Office 
opposite its name on Schedule I (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or in the assignment or other agreement pursuant to which it became a Lender or (b) such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time
to time specify to TBC and the Agent.        Eurodollar Rate   means, for an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance
constituting part of a Committed Borrowing, and for the relevant period specified in the applicable Notice of Bid Borrowing for a Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, an interest rate per annum equal to either       

(a)  
  the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (  BBA LIBOR  ), as published by Reuters (or, if unavailable for any reason by Reuters, then by
reference to another commercially available source providing quotations the British Banks Association LIBOR Rate, such as Bloomberg,) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a period substantially equal to such Interest Period (if a Committed Advance) or
such relevant period specified in the applicable Notice of Bid Borrowing (if a Bid Advance), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two business days before the first day of such Interest Period or the first day of the relevant period specified in such
Notice of Bid Borrowing; or           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  8  

(b)  
  if the foregoing rate is unavailable for any reason, the average (rounded to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the
rates per annum offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on deposits in U.S. dollars two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period or
the first day of such relevant period specified in the Notice of Bid Borrowing         

(i)  
  for such Eurodollar Committed Advance, on an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank s Eurodollar Rate Advance constituting part of such Committed Borrowing and for a
period equal to such Interest Period, or         

(ii)  
  for such Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, on an amount substantially equal to the amount of the Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing which includes such Bid Advance multiplied by a fraction
equal to such Reference Bank s Ratable Share of the Commitments and for a period equal to the relevant period specified in such Notice of Bid Borrowing.        The Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance constituting part of the same Borrowing and for the relevant period specified in a Notice of Bid Borrowing for each Eurodollar
Rate Bid Advance shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period or period, as the case may be,
 subject ,  however , to the provisions of Section 2.11.        Eurodollar Rate Advance   means a Committed Advance (a
  Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance  ) or a Bid Advance (a   Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance  ) which bears interest at a rate of interest quoted as a margin (which shall be the Applicable Margin in the case of a Committed
Advance or as offered by a Lender and accepted by a Borrower in the case of a Bid Advance) over the Eurodollar Rate.        Eurodollar Rate Bid
Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.6(b).        Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage   means the reserve percentage
applicable to a Lender for any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Advance during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during
which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation,
any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits
by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.        Event of
Default   means any of the events described in Section 6.1.        Extension Request   has the meaning specified in
Section 2.22.        Facility Fee   has the meaning specified in Section 2.8.        Federal Funds Rate   means, for each day during a period, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the fluctuating rates on overnight
Federal funds transactions with members  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  9  

of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately
preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds
brokers of recognized standing selected by it.        Fitch   means Fitch, Inc.        Fixed Rate Advance   means an Advance made by a Lender to a Borrower as part of a Fixed Rate Borrowing.        Fixed Rate Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.6(b).        Guaranty   means each Guaranty
Agreement executed by TBC in favor of the Agent and the Lenders, unconditionally guaranteeing the payment of all obligations of a Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under any Notes executed or to be executed by it.        Indemnified Costs   has the meaning specified in Section 7.5.        Indemnified Party  has the meaning specified in Section 8.3(b).        Interest Period   means, for each Eurodollar
Rate Committed Advance constituting part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Committed Advance or the date of the Conversion of a Base Rate Advance into such a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance and ending on the last day
of the period selected by the applicable Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by
such Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three, or six months (or nine months, with the consent of all Lenders funding those particular Advances), as the applicable Borrower may,
upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select,  provided ,  however , that:       

(i)  
  no Interest Period shall end on a date later than the Termination Date;         

(ii)  
  Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Committed Advances constituting part of the same Committed Borrowing shall be of the same duration; and         

(iii)  
  whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next
succeeding Business Day,  provided  that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of the Interest Period shall occur on the immediately preceding Business
Day.          Issuing Bank   means any Lender that has issued a Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.3.        L/C Cash Deposit Account   means a cash deposit account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and
control, upon terms as may be satisfactory to the Agent.        L/C Related Documents   has the meaning specified in Section 2.4(b)(i).

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  10  

Lender  , subject to Section 2.21, means any of the institutions that is a signatory hereto or
that, pursuant to Section 2.14, 2.20, 2.21 or 2.22, becomes a  Lender  hereunder.        Letter of Credit   has the meaning
specified in Section 2.3(a).        Letter of Credit Agreement   has the meaning specified in Section 2.3(d).        Letter of Credit Facility   means, at any time, an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $1,000,000,000 and (b) the aggregate amount of the
Commitments, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.4, Section 2.9 or Section 2.20 or increased pursuant to Section 2.20.        Loan Document   means this Agreement, the Notes and the other L/C Related Documents.        Majority Lenders   means
Lenders holding greater than 50% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances plus the participations in Letters of Credit or, if no Advances or Letters of Credit are outstanding, Lenders having greater than 50% of the total
Commitments.        Moody s   means Moody s Investor Services, Inc.        Non-Extending Lender   has the meaning specified in Section 2.22(a).        Note   means a
Committed Note or a Bid Note.        Notice of Bid Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.6(b).        Notice of Borrowing   means a Notice of Committed Borrowing or a Notice of Bid Borrowing.        Notice of Committed Borrowing   has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a).        Notice of
Issuance   has the meaning specified in Section 2.3(d).        OECD   means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.        Person   means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), limited liability company, joint stock
company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.        Property, Plant and Equipment   means any item of real property, or any interest therein, buildings, improvements and machinery.        Proposed Increased Commitment   has the meaning specified in Section 2.20(c).        Ratable Share   of any
amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of (a) a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender s Commitment at such time and the denominator of which is the aggregate Commitments at such time and
(b) such amount.        Reference Banks   means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., and Deutsche Bank AG.
       Register   has the meaning specified in Section 2.21(d).        Replacement Lenders   has the meaning specified in Section 2.22(c).         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  11  

Request for Alteration   means a document substantially in the form of Exhibit C, duly executed by TBC,
pursuant to Section 2.20.        Required Assignment   has the meaning specified in Section 2.21(a).        S P   means Standard   Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.        Subsidiary   means any Person in which more than 50% of the Voting Stock or the interest in the capital or profits is owned by TBC, by TBC and any one
or more other Subsidiaries, or by any one or more other Subsidiaries.        Subsidiary Borrower   means, individually and collectively, as the
context requires, each Subsidiary that is or becomes a  Borrower  in accordance with Section 2.23; in each case, unless and until it becomes a  Terminated Subsidiary Borrower .        TBC   means The Boeing Company, a Delaware corporation.        Terminated Subsidiary Borrower   means, individually and collectively, as the context requires, a Subsidiary Borrower that has ceased to be a  Borrower  in accordance with Section 2.23.        Termination Date   means the earlier to occur of (i) November 16, 2012, as such date may be extended from time to time pursuant to
Section 2.22, and (ii) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.9 or Section 6.2.        Total
Capital   has the meaning specified in Section 4.2(b).        Type  , as to Committed Borrowings, means either Base Rate Advances
or Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances and, as to Bid Borrowings, means either Fixed Rate Advances or Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances.        Unused
Commitment   means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) the amount of such Lender s Commitment at such time  minus  (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Committed Advances made by such
Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time,  plus  (ii) such Lender s Ratable Share of the aggregate principal amount of all Bid Advances outstanding at such time  plus  (iii) such Lender s
Ratable Share of the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time.        Voting Stock   means, as to a
corporation, all the issued and outstanding capital stock of such corporation having general voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not any capital
stock of any other class or classes shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency).       

1.2  
   Use of Defined Terms; References .   Any defined term used in the plural preceded by the definite article encompasses all members of the relevant class. Any defined term
used in the singular preceded by  a ,  an  or  any  indicates any number of the members of the relevant class. All references in this Agreement to a Section, Article, Schedule or Exhibit are to a Section, Article,
Schedule or Exhibit of or to this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated.         

1.3  
   Accounting Terms . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those
applied in the preparation of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.1(e).           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  12  

ARTICLE 2        Amounts and Terms of the Advances and Letters of Credit        

(a)  
   Obligation to Make Committed Advances . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Committed Advances to the Borrowers from time
to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Termination Date of such Lender in a principal amount not to exceed such Lender s Unused Commitment.         

(c)  
   Type of Committed Advances . Each Committed Borrowing shall consist of Committed Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their
respective Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender s Commitment, the Borrowers may from time to time borrow, prepay pursuant to Section 2.13, and reborrow under this Section 2.1 and Section 2.2.         

2.2  
   Making Committed Advances .         

(a)  
   Notice of Committed Borrowing . Each Committed Borrowing shall be made on notice, given by a Borrower to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the day of
the proposed Committed Borrowing in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing and on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Committed Borrowing in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Borrowing (a   Notice of Committed
Borrowing  ). Each such Notice of Committed Borrowing shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit B-l, specifying the requested         

(i)  
  date of such Committed Borrowing,         

(ii)  
  Type of Committed Advances constituting such Committed Borrowing,         

(iii)  
  aggregate amount of such Committed Borrowing, and         

(iv)  
  in the case of a Committed Borrowing composed of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Committed Advance, which Interest Period may be 1, 2, 3 or 6
months, at the option of the Borrower, or, if acceptable to all the Lenders, 9 months.        Every Notice of Committed Borrowing
given by a Subsidiary Borrower must be countersigned by an authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that proposed Committed Borrowing. Upon receipt of a Notice of Committed Borrowing, the
Agent shall promptly give notice to each Lender thereof.       

(b)  
   Funding Committed Advances . Each Lender shall, before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Committed Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable
Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent s Account, in same day funds, such Lender s ratable portion of such Committed Borrowing. After the Agent s receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in
Article 5, the Agent will make such funds available to the relevant Borrower at an account specified by such Borrower.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  13  

(c)  
   Irrevocable Notice . Each Notice of Committed Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding. In the case of any Committed Borrowing that the related Notice of Committed Borrowing
specifies is to be composed of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower requesting such Committed Borrowing shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender on account of any failure to fulfill on or before the
date specified for such Committed Borrowing in such Notice of Committed Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5, including, without limitation, any loss (but excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by
reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Committed Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Committed Borrowing when such Committed Advance, as a result of such failure, is not
made on such date.         

(d)  
   Lender s Ratable Portion . Unless the Agent has received notice from a Lender prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the day of any Committed Borrowing that such
Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender s ratable portion of such Committed Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Committed Borrowing in accordance with
subsection (b) of this Section 2.2 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the requesting Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that a Lender has not so made such ratable portion
available to the Agent, such Lender and such Borrower shall severally repay to the Agent forthwith on demand an amount that in the aggregate equals such corresponding amount together with interest thereon for each day from the date such amount is
made available by the Agent to such Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at         

(i)  
  in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Committed Advances constituting such Committed Borrowing, and         

(ii)  
  in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate.         

If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender s Committed Advance as part of such Committed Borrowing
for purposes of this Agreement.         

(e)  
   Independent Lender Obligations . The failure of any Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by it as part of any Committed Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender
of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Committed Advance on the date of such Committed Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by such other Lender on the
date of any Committed Borrowing.         

2.3  
   Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit .         

(a)  
   Request for Issuance . Any Borrower may request any Lender to issue, and any Lender may, if in its sole discretion it elects to do so, on the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth, issue letters of credit (each, a  Letter of Credit ) for the account of the Borrowers from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until 30 days before the Termination Date

(i)  
  in an aggregate Available Amount for all Letters of Credit issued by all Issuing Banks not to exceed at any time the Letter of Credit Facility at such time, and

(ii)  
  in an amount for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  14  

(b)  
   Amount of Letters of Credit . Each Letter of Credit shall be in an amount of $1,000,000 or more.         

(c)  
   Duration of Letters of Credit . No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the applicable Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later
than 30 days prior to the Termination Date, provided that if the Termination Date shall have been extended pursuant to Section 2.22 with respect to some but not all of the Lenders, the Available Amount of Letters of Credit with expiry dates
after any Termination Date applicable to any Non-Extending Lenders will not exceed the portion of the Commitments attributable to the Lenders with respect to which the Termination Date shall have been extended. Within the limits referred to above,
the Borrowers may request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.3, repay any Advances resulting from drawings thereunder pursuant to Section 2.3(f) and request the issuance of additional Letters of Credit under this
Section 2.3. The terms  issue ,  issued ,  issuance  and all similar terms, when applied to a Letter of Credit, shall include any renewal, extension or amendment thereof.         

(d)  
   Notice of Issuance . Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the
date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by any Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent, prompt notice thereof by facsimile. Each
such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a   Notice of Issuance  ) shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or facsimile, specifying therein the requested         

(i)  
  date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day),         

(ii)  
  Available Amount of such Letter of Credit,         

(iii)  
  expiration date of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be later than 30 days prior to the Termination Date),         

(iv)  
  name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and         

(v)  
  form of such Letter of Credit, and shall be accompanied by such customary application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank may specify to the Borrower requesting
such issuance for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a   Letter of Credit Agreement  ).         

Every Notice of Issuance given by a Subsidiary Borrower must be countersigned by an authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole
discretion, to that proposed Letter of Credit.         

If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its sole discretion, such Issuing Bank may, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set
forth in Article 5, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower requesting such issuance at its office referred to in Section 8.2 or as otherwise agreed with such Borrower in connection with such issuance. In the event and to the
extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.         

(e)  
     Participations . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on
the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  15  

acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender s Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of
Credit. Each Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such
Lender s Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date made, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to any Borrower for any
reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including
any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or
reduction whatsoever. Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender s Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each
time such Lender s Commitment may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.4, Section 2.9 or Section 2.20 or increased pursuant to Section 2.20 or otherwise amended pursuant to this Agreement.          

(f)  
   Drawing and Reimbursement . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any
such Issuing Bank of a Committed Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance in the amount of such draft. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice (and such Issuing Bank will use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such notice within
one Business Day) of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the Company, the applicable Borrower (if not the Company) and the Agent. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank made to the Agent, with a copy of such demand to the
Company, and the Agent s prompt notice thereof to each Lender, each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender s Ratable Share of such outstanding Committed Advance, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to
the Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, by deposit to the Agent s Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Advance to be funded by such Lender. Each Lender acknowledges and
agrees that its obligation to make Committed Advances pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of
any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Promptly after receipt
thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an outstanding Committed Advance on         

(i)  
  the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank,  provided  that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time)
on such Business Day, or         

(ii)  
  the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time.        If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Committed Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the
Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such
Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  16  

such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute a Committed Advance
made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Committed Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.       

(g)  
   Letter of Credit Reports . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish         

(i)  
  to the Agent (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit during the
preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and         

(ii)  
  to the Agent (with a copy to the Company) on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the
preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit.         

(h)  
   Failure to Make Advances . The failure of any Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.3(f) shall not relieve any other
Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Committed Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Committed Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.

(a)  
   Committed Advances . The Borrowers shall repay to the Agent for the ratable accounts of the Lenders on the Termination Date the unpaid principal amount of the Committed
Advances then outstanding.         

(b)  
   Letter of Credit Reimbursements . The obligation of any Borrower under this Agreement, any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument, in each case, to
repay any Committed Advance that results from payment of a drawing under a Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such
other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by a Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights such
Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by the Borrower thereof):         

(i)  
  any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Letter of Credit Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (all
of the foregoing being, collectively, the   L/C Related Documents           

(ii)  
  any change in the time, manner or place of payment of any Letter of Credit;         

(iii)  
  the existence of any claim, defense or other right that any Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which
any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, the Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  17  

(iv)  
  any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate
in any respect;         

(v)  
  payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;

(vi)  
  any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of
any Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or         

(vii)  
  any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable
discharge of the Borrower s obligations hereunder.         

2.5  
   Interest Rate on Committed Advances . Each Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each of its Committed Advances from the date of such Committed Advance
until such principal amount is paid in full, at the following rates per annum:         

(i)  
  during each period in which such Committed Advance is a Base Rate Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable
Margin plus the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, payable quarterly in arrears on the first day of each January, April, July and October and on the Termination Date, and         

(ii)  
  during each period in which such Committed Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, at a rate per annum equal at all times during each relevant Interest Period for such Committed
Advance to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin plus the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, payable on the last day of each such Interest Period, and if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three
months, quarterly on each day during such Interest Period that is three months from either (A) the first day of such Interest Period or (B) the last such interest payment date and on the date such Committed Advance is Converted or paid in
full;         provided  that in the event and during the continuance of an Event of Default (x) the Applicable Margin
shall immediately increase by 1.0% above the Applicable Margin then in effect, and, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, such Advance shall automatically convert to a Base Rate Advance at the end of the Interest Period then in effect for such
Eurodollar Rate Advance and (y) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until
such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% above the Base Rate.       

(a)  
     Bid Advances Impact on Commitments . The Borrowers may make Bid Borrowings from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until
the Termination Date in the manner set forth below,  provided  that, following the making of each Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding plus the Available Amount of the Letters of Credit then outstanding shall not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  18  

Lenders. As provided in the definition of  Unused Commitment , the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders shall be deemed used from
time to time to the extent of the aggregate amount of the Bid Advances then outstanding, and such deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments shall be applied to the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments;
 provided ,  however , that any Lender s Bid Advances shall not otherwise reduce that Lender s obligation to lend its pro rata share of the remaining Available Commitments.          

(b)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . Any Borrower may request a Bid Borrowing by delivering to the Agent a notice of a Bid Borrowing (a   Notice of Bid Borrowing  ), in
substantially the form of Exhibit B-2, specifying the following:         

(i)  
  the date and aggregate amount of the proposed Bid Borrowing,         

(ii)  
  the maturity date for repayment of each Bid Advance to be made as part of such Bid Borrowing, which maturity date         

(A)  
  may not be later than 5 Business Days prior to the Termination Date, but may otherwise be 7 days or more from the date of such requested Bid Advance if the Borrower specifies in the
Notice of Bid Borrowing that the rates of interest to be offered by the Lenders will be fixed rates per annum (a   Fixed Rate Borrowing  ), and         

(B)  
  shall be either 1, 2, 3, 6 or 9 months from the date of such Bid Borrowing if the Borrower specifies in the Notice of Bid Borrowing that such Bid Borrowing is to consist of
Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances (a   Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing  ),         

(iii)  
  the interest payment date or dates relating thereto, and         

(iv)  
  any other terms to be applicable to such Bid Borrowing.        A
Borrower requesting a Bid Borrowing shall deliver a Notice of Bid Borrowing to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) (A) at least one Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Bid Borrowing if the proposed Bid Borrowing
is to be a Fixed Rate Borrowing, and (B) at least four Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Bid Borrowing, if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing. Every Notice of Bid Borrowing given by a Subsidiary
Borrower must be countersigned by an authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that proposed Bid Borrowing. The Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Lender of each request for a Bid
Borrowing by sending such Lender a copy of the related Notice of Bid Borrowing.       

(c)  
   Discretion as to Bid Advances . Each Lender may, in its sole discretion, elect to irrevocably offer to make one or more Bid Advances to the applicable Borrower as part of such
proposed Bid Borrowing at a rate or rates of interest specified by such Lender in its sole discretion (each such rate of interest to be a fixed rate if the Borrower requested Fixed Rate Advances or a margin over the Eurodollar Rate if the Borrower
requested Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances), by notifying the Agent (which shall give prompt notice thereof to the Company and such Borrower), before 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) (A) on the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, if the proposed
Bid Borrowing is to be a Fixed Rate Borrowing and (B) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Notice of Bid Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing. In such notice the Lender shall specify
the following:         

(i)  
  the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Bid Advance which such Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Bid Borrowing (which amounts may, subject to the first
proviso in this Section 2.6(a), exceed such Lender s Commitment),           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  19  

(ii)  
  the rate or rates of interest therefor (specified as stated in this paragraph (c)), and         

(iii)  
  such Lender s Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Bid Advance;         provided  that if the Agent in its capacity as a Lender, in its sole discretion, elects to make any such offer, it shall notify such Borrower and the Company of such offer before 9:30 a.m. (New York City time)
on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders. If, by 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date on which notice of a Lender s election under this Section 2.6(c) is to be made, the Agent
fails to receive, at its address specified in Section 8.2, a notice from a Lender provided for in this Section 2.6(c), the Agent may conclusively presume that such Lender has elected not to offer to make any Bid Advances to such Borrower
with respect to the related Notice of Bid Borrowing.       

(d)  
   Borrower Selection of Lender Bids . The Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing shall, in turn, (A) before 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of such proposed Bid
Borrowing, in the case of a proposed Bid Borrowing to be a Fixed Rate Borrowing, and (B) before 12:00 noon (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Bid Borrowing, in the case of a proposed Bid Borrowing to be a
Eurodollar Rate Bid Borrowing, either:         

(i)  
  cancel such Bid Borrowing by giving the Agent notice to that effect, or         

(ii)  
  accept, in its sole discretion, one or more of the offers made by a Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.6(c), by giving notice to the Agent of the amount of each Bid
Advance (which amount shall be equal to or greater than the minimum amount and equal to or less than the maximum amount, notified to such Borrower by the Agent on behalf of such Lender for such Bid Advance pursuant to Section 2.6(c)) to be made
by each Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, and reject any remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to Section 2.6(c) by giving the Agent notice to that effect;  provided  that offers will be accepted, if at all, in order of lowest to
highest interest rates, and, if two or more Lenders bid at the same rate, the Bid Borrowing with respect to such rate will be allocated among such Lenders in proportion to the amount bid by each such Lender.        If the Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing notifies the Agent that such Bid Borrowing is canceled pursuant to Section 2.6(d)(i), the Agent shall
give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and such Bid Borrowing shall not be made.       

(e)  
   Bid Borrowing . If the Borrower proposing the Bid Borrowing accepts one or more of the offers made by a Lender or Lenders pursuant to Section 2.6(d)(ii), the Agent shall
in turn promptly         

(i)  
  notify each Lender that has made an offer as described in Section 2.6(c), of the date and aggregate amount of such Bid Borrowing and whether or not any offer or offers made by
such Lender pursuant to Section 2.6(c) have been accepted by such Borrower,         

(ii)  
  notify each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance, as part of such Bid Borrowing, of the amount of each Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, and

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  20  

(iii)  
  upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in 5.3 or 5.6, as applicable, notify each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance as part of such Bid Borrowing that the applicable
conditions set forth in Article 5 appear to have been satisfied.        When each Lender that is to make a Bid Advance as part of
such Bid Borrowing has received notice from the Agent pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, such Lender shall, before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of such Bid Borrowing specified in the notice received from the Agent
pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent s Account such Lender s portion of such Bid Borrowing, in same day funds. Upon fulfillment of
the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5 and after receipt by the Agent of such funds, the Agent will make such funds available to the relevant Borrower at an account specified by such Borrower. Promptly after each Bid Borrowing the Agent
shall notify each Lender of the amount and tenor of the Bid Borrowing.       

(f)  
  If the Borrower proposing such Bid Borrowing notifies the Agent pursuant to Section 2.6(d)(ii) above that it accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders,
such notice of acceptance shall be irrevocable and binding on such Borrower. Such Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in
the related Notice of Bid Borrowing for such Bid Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article 5, including, without limitation, any loss (but excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation
or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing when such Bid Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.

(g)  
   Amount of Bid Borrowings . Each Notice of Bid Borrowing shall request an aggregate amount of Bid Advances not less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000
in excess thereof,  provided  that a Borrower may accept offers aggregating less than $10,000,000 and offers which are not an integral multiple of $1,000,000, and  provided   further  that, as provided in Section 2.6(a),
following the making of each Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding plus the Available Amount of the Letters of Credit then outstanding shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders. Within the
limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.6, the Borrowers may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.6, repay pursuant to Section 2.6(g), and reborrow under this Section 2.6,  provided  that a Bid
Borrowing shall not be made within three Business Days of the date of any other Bid Borrowing.         

(h)  
   Repayment of Bid Advances . On the maturity date of each Bid Advance specified by the relevant Borrower for repayment of such Bid Advance in the related Notice of Bid
Borrowing, the Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of the Lender which has made such Bid Advance the then unpaid principal amount of such Bid Advance. The Borrowers shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Bid Advance
without the consent of the Lender which extended such Bid Advance.         

(i)  
     Interest on Bid Advances; Bid Notes . The relevant Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Bid Advance, from the date of such Bid
Advance to the date the principal amount of such Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the fixed rate of interest specified by the Lender making such Fixed Rate Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to Section 2.6(c) or, in
the case of a Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance, the margin specified by the Lender making such Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto plus the Eurodollar Rate determined with respect to such Bid Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.11, payable on
the interest  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  21  

payment date or dates specified by the Borrower for such Bid Advance in the related Notice of Bid Borrowing. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance
of an Event of Default, the applicable Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of unpaid principal of and interest on each Bid Advance owing to a Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is payable thereon, at a rate per annum
equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Bid Advance under the terms of the Bid Note evidencing such Bid Advance unless otherwise agreed in such Bid Note. The indebtedness of the applicable
Borrower resulting from each Bid Advance made to the Borrower as part of a Bid Borrowing shall be evidenced by a separate Bid Note of such Borrower payable to the order of the Lender making such Bid Advance, which Bid Note shall be returned to the
Borrower upon payment in full of such Bid Advance.          

2.7  
   Lender Assignment or Sale . Any Lender may, without the prior written consent of the Borrowers, sell or assign all or any part of such Lender s rights in any or all of
the Bid Advances made by such Lender or in the Bid Notes in connection with such Bid Advances as a participation,  provided ,  however , that         

(i)  
  any such sale or assignment shall not require any Borrower to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify the Advances or the Notes
under the blue sky laws of any state, and the selling or assigning Lender shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such transaction,         

(ii)  
  no purchaser or assignee in such a transaction shall thereby become a  Lender  for any purpose under this Agreement,         

(iii)  
  such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrowers) shall remain unchanged,         

(iv)  
  such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and         

(v)  
  the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement.         

2.8  
   Fees and Commissions .         

(a)  
   Facility Fees . TBC agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (  Facility Fee  ) on such Lender s Commitment, without regard
to usage. The Facility Fee shall be payable for the periods from the date hereof in the case of each Lender named in Schedule I, and from the effective date on which any other Lender becomes party hereto, until the Termination Date (or such earlier
date on which such Lender ceases to be a party hereto) at the rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time. Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and
October 1 during the term of this Agreement and on the Termination Date. The amount of the Facility Fee payable on January 1, 2008 and on the Termination Date shall be prorated based on the actual number of days elapsed either since the
date hereof (in the case of the January 1, 2008 payment) or since the date on which the last payment in respect of the Facility Fee was made (in the case of the payment made on the Termination Date).           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  22  

(b)  
   Letter of Credit Commissions .         

(i)  
  Each Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commission on such Lender s Ratable Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters
of Credit issued at the request of such Borrower and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Letter of Credit Commission in effect from time to time during such calendar quarter, payable in arrears quarterly each
January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 during the term of this Agreement, and on and after the Termination Date, payable upon demand.         

(ii)  
  Each Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank for its own account such reasonable fees as may from time to time be agreed in writing between TBC and such Issuing Bank.

2.9  
   Reduction of the Commitments . TBC shall have the right, upon at least 3 Business Days  notice to the Agent, to permanently terminate in whole or permanently reduce
ratably in part the Unused Commitments,  provided  that each partial reduction shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.         

2.10  
   Additional Interest on Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances . Each Borrower shall pay to each Lender, so long as such Lender is required under regulations of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance of
such Lender to such Borrower, from the date of such Committed Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for
such Interest Period for such Committed Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each
date on which interest is payable on such Committed Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to the relevant Borrowers through the Agent.         

2.11  
   Eurodollar Interest Rate Determination .         

(a)  
   Methods to Determine Eurodollar Rate . The Agent shall determine the Eurodollar Rate for each Eurodollar Rate Advance by using the methods described in the definition of the
term  Eurodollar Rate,  and shall give prompt notice to the relevant Borrowers and the Lenders of each such Eurodollar Rate.         

(b)  
   Role of Reference Banks . In the event the Eurodollar Rate cannot be determined by the first method described in the definition of  Eurodollar Rate,  each Reference
Bank shall furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining the Eurodollar Rate in accordance with the second method described therein. If any one or more of the Reference Banks does not furnish such timely information to the
Agent for the purpose of determining a Eurodollar Rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. In the event the rate cannot be determined by either of the methods
described in the definition of  Eurodollar Rate,  then:         

(i)  
  the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrowers and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances,         

(ii)  
  each such Advance, if a Committed Advance, will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if the Borrower
was attempting to Convert a Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance, such Advance will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  23  

(iii)  
  the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances, or to make, or to Convert Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances shall be suspended until
the Agent notifies the Borrowers and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.         

(c)  
   Inadequate Eurodollar Rate . If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period
for such Committed Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the
relevant Borrowers and the Lenders, whereupon         

(i)  
  each such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and

(ii)  
  the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances shall be suspended until the Agent notifies the Borrowers and the
Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.         

(d)  
   Absence of an Interest Period on a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance . If a Borrower fails to select the duration of an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance
in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of  Interest Period  in Section 1.1, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Committed Advances will automatically, on the last day of the
then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.         

2.12  
   Voluntary Conversion of Committed Advances . Subject to the provisions of Sections 2.11 and 2.16, any Borrower may Convert all such Borrower s Committed Advances of one
Type constituting the same Committed Borrowing into Advances of the other Type on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion;
 provided ,  however , that the Conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance into a Base Rate Advance may be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance. Each such notice of a
Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify         

(i)  
  the date of such Conversion,         

(ii)  
  the Committed Advances to be Converted, and         

(iii)  
  if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for each such Committed Advance.         

2.13  
   Prepayments . Any Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time, upon prior written notice from such Borrower to the Agent, to prepay its outstanding
principal obligations with respect to its Committed Advances in whole or ratably in part (except as provided in Section 2.16 or 2.20),  provided  that every notice of prepayment given by a Subsidiary Borrower must be countersigned by an
authorized representative of TBC, in order to evidence the consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, to that prepayment. Such prepaying Borrower may be obligated to make certain prepayments of obligations with respect to one or more Committed Advances
subject to and in accordance with this Section 2.13.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  24  

(a)  
   Base Rate Borrowings Prepayments . With respect to Base Rate Borrowings, such prepayment shall be without premium or penalty, upon notice given to the Agent, and shall be made
not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment. The Borrower shall designate in such notice the amount and date of such prepayment. Accrued interest on the amount so prepaid shall be payable on the first Business Day
of the calendar quarter next following the prepayment. The minimum amount of Base Rate Borrowings which may be prepaid on any occasion shall be $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, if less, the total amount of Base
Rate Advances then outstanding for that Borrower.         

(b)  
   Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings Prepayments . With respect to Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings, such prepayment shall be made on at least 3 Business Days  prior
written notice to the Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time), and if such notice is given the applicable Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Committed Advances constituting part of the same Committed Borrowing
in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid. The minimum amount of Eurodollar Rate Committed Borrowings which may be prepaid on any occasion shall be $10,000,000 or an
integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, if less, the total amount of Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances then outstanding for that Borrower.         

(c)  
   Additional Prepayment Payments . The prepaying Borrower shall, on the date of the prepayment of any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, pay to the Agent for the account of
each Lender interest accrued to such date of prepayment on the principal amount prepaid plus, in the case only of a prepayment on any date which is not the last day of an applicable Eurodollar Interest Period, any amounts which may be required to
compensate such Lender for any losses or out-of-pocket costs or expenses (including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds, but excluding loss of anticipated profits) incurred by
such Lender as a result of such prepayment,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts to minimize any such losses, costs and expenses.         

(d)  
   Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance Prepayment Expense . If, due to the acceleration of any of the Committed Advances pursuant to Section 6.2(b), an assignment, repayment
or prepayment under Section 2.20, 2.21 or 2.22 or otherwise, any Lender receives payment of its portion of, or is subject to any Conversion from, any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period
with respect to such Committed Advance, the relevant Borrowers shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts which may be payable to such Lender by such Borrower by reason of payment on such day as provided in
Section 2.13(c).         

(a)  
   Costs from Law or Authorities . If, due to either         

(1)  
  the introduction of, or any change (other than, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Borrowings, a change by way of imposition or an increase of reserve requirements described in
Section 2.10) in, or new interpretation of, any law or regulation effective at any time and from time to time on or after the date hereof, or           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  25  

(2)  
  the compliance with any guideline or the request from or by any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law),        there is an increase in the cost incurred by a Lender in agreeing to make or making, funding or
maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance or Eurodollar Rate Bid Advance then or at any time thereafter outstanding or agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining or participating in Letters of Credit (excluding for purposes of this
Section 2.14 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.15 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or
by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office (or any political subdivision thereof), then TBC shall from time to time, upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such
demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender such amounts as are required to compensate such Lender for such increased cost,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal
policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to minimize any such increased cost and  provided   further  that the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such compensation with respect to any period prior to the 90th day before the
date of any such demand, unless such introduction, change, compliance or request shall have retroactive effect to a date prior to such 90  th    day. A
certificate as to the amount of such increase in cost, submitted to the relevant Borrowers and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under this Section 2.14(a), absent manifest error.        

(b)   
     Increased Capital Requirements . If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any
guidelines or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) which is enacted, adopted or issued at any time and from time to time after the date hereof affects or would affect the amount of
capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender (or any corporation controlling such Lender) and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender s commitment to lend or to issue or
participate in Letters of Credit hereunder and other commitments of such type or the issuance or participation in the Letters of Credit (or similar contingent obligations), then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent),
the Borrowers shall immediately pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such
Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender s commitment to lend or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit hereunder or to the issuance or maintenance of or participation in any
Letters of Credit,  provided  that such Lender shall exercise reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to minimize any such compensation payable by the Borrowers hereunder and
 provided   further  that the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such compensation with respect to any period prior to the 90th day before the date of any such demand, unless such introduction, change, compliance or request shall
have retroactive effect to a date prior to such 90  th    day. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the relevant Borrowers and the Agent by such
Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.           

(c)  
   Borrower Rights Upon Cost Increases . Upon receipt of notice from any Lender claiming compensation pursuant to this Section 2.14 or Section 2.15 and as long as no
Default has occurred and is continuing, TBC shall have the right, on or before the 30th day after the date of receipt of any such notice,           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  26  

(i)  
  to arrange for one or more Lenders or other commercial banks to assume the Commitment of such Lender;  subject ,  however , to payment to the Agent by the assignor or the
assignee of a processing and recording fee of $3,500, in the event the assuming lender is not a Lender; or         

(ii)  
  to arrange for the Commitment of such Lender to be terminated and all Committed Advances owed to such Lender to be prepaid;        and, in either case, subject to payment in full of all principal, accrued and unpaid interest, fees, commissions and other amounts payable under this
Agreement and then owing to such Lender immediately prior to the assignment or termination of the Commitment of such Lender.       

(a)  
   Exclusion and Inclusion of Taxes . Any and all payments by each Borrower hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Notes shall be made, in accordance with
Section 2.17, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto,  excluding , in the case of each Lender and the
Agent, taxes that are imposed on its overall net income by the United States and taxes that are imposed on its overall net income (and franchise taxes imposed in lieu thereof) by the state or foreign jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender
or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes that are imposed on its overall net income (and franchise taxes imposed in lieu thereof) by the state or foreign jurisdiction
of such Lender s Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or with respect to any Advances or
under any Notes, hereinafter referred to as   Taxes  ). If any Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect to any sum payable hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Note to any Lender or
the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.15) such Lender or the Agent (as the case
may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation
authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.         

(b)  
   Payment of Other Taxes . In addition, each Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp, documentary, excise, property or similar taxes, charges, or levies that arise from
any payment made hereunder or with respect to any Advances and under any Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performance under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Notes (  Other Taxes  ).

(c)  
   Indemnification as to Taxes . Each Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes, and for the
full amount of taxes of any kind imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.15, imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising
therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.         

(d)  
     Evidence of or Exemption from Taxes . Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower which paid such Taxes shall furnish to the Agent, at
its address referred to in  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  27  

Section 8.2, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment. In the case of any payment hereunder or with respect to the Advances
or under any Notes by or on behalf of any Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of any Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no taxes are payable in
respect thereof, such Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection
(d) and subsection (e), the terms   United States   and   United States person   have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.          

(e)  
   Non-U.S. Lenders . Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States shall, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this
Agreement (in the case of each Lender listed in Schedule I), and from the date on which any other Lender becomes a party hereto (in the case of each other Lender), and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by TBC (but only so long
thereafter as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), provide each of the Agent and TBC with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8EC1, as appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, to
establish that such Lender is not subject to, or is entitled to a reduced rate of, United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or with respect to any Advances or any Notes. If the forms provided by a Lender at the time such
Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate form
certifying that a lower rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lower rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form;  provided ,  however , that, if at the date on which a Lender becomes a
party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection 2.15(a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to
withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this
subsection 2.15(e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8EC1, that the Lender reasonably
considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the relevant Borrowers and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document confidential information.         

(f)  
   Lender Failure to Provide IRS Forms . For any period with respect to which any Lender has failed to provide TBC with the appropriate form described in subsection 2.15(e)
(other than if such failure is due to a change in law occurring after the date on which a form originally was required to be provided or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection 2.15(e)), such Lender shall not be entitled to
indemnification under subsection (a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure;  provided ,  however , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a
form required hereunder, TBC shall take such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such Taxes.         

2.16  
   Illegality . If any Lender shall notify the Agent that either         

(a)  
  there is any introduction of, or change in or in the interpretation of, any law or regulation that in the opinion of counsel for such Lender in the relevant jurisdiction makes it
unlawful, or           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  28  

(b)  
  any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful        for such Lender to continue to fund or maintain any Eurodollar Rate Advances or to perform its obligations hereunder with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, then, upon the issuance of such opinion of
counsel or such assertion by a central bank or other governmental authority, the Agent shall give notice of such opinion or assertion to the Borrowers (accompanied by such opinion, if applicable). The Borrowers shall forthwith either       

(i)  
  prepay in full all Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances and all Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances made by such Lender, with accrued interest thereon or         

(ii)  
  Convert each such Eurodollar Rate Committed Advance made by such Lender into a Base Rate Advance.        Upon such prepayment or Conversion, the obligation of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances or Eurodollar Rate Bid Advances, or to
Convert Committed Advances into Eurodollar Rate Committed Advances, shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrowers that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exists.       

(a)  
   Time and Distribution of Payments . The Borrowers shall make each payment hereunder and with respect to any Advances or under any Notes, without counterclaim or setoff, not
later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at the Agent s Account in same day funds. The Agent shall promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or
interest, fees or commissions ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.6, 2.10, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 or 2.20) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of
any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. From and after the effective date of an assignment pursuant to
Section 2.21, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and with respect to any Advances or under any Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such assignment shall make all
appropriate adjustments in such payments for the periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.         

(b)  
   Computation of Interest, Fees and Commissions . All computations of interest based on the Base Rate and utilization fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of
365 or 366 days, as the case may be. All computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of Facility Fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent, and all computations of interest pursuant to
Section 2.10 shall be made by a Lender, on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are
payable. Each determination by the Agent (or, in the case of Section 2.10, by a Lender) of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.         

(c)  
   Payment Due Dates . Whenever any payment hereunder or with respect to any Advances or under any Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such
payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or fee, as the case may be, but not later than the Termination Date;  provided ,
 however , if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  29  

(d)  
   Presumption of Borrower Payment . Unless the Agent receives notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to any Lenders hereunder that such Borrower
will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each such Lender on such due date an
amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that such Borrower has not made such payment in full to the Agent, each such Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together
with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.         

2.18  
   Sharing of Payments, Etc . If any Lender obtains any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the
Committed Advances made by it (other than pursuant to Sections 2.10, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 or 2.20), in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Committed Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from
the other Lenders such participations in the Committed Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them,  provided, however , that if all or any portion of such
excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each other Lender shall be rescinded and each such other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together
with an amount equal to such Lender s ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender s required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other
amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrowers agree that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.18 may, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a creditor of the Borrowers in the amount of such participation.         

(a)  
   Lender Records; If Notes Required . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to
such Lender resulting from each Committed Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Committed Advances. Each Borrower
shall, upon notice by any Lender to such Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Committed Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or
otherwise) the Committed Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, such Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Committed Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such
Lender.         

(b)  
   Record of Borrowings ,  Payables and Payments . The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 2.21(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary
account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  30  

(i)  
  the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder to each Borrower, the Type of Advances constituting such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto,

(ii)  
  the terms of each assignment pursuant to Section 2.21,         

(iii)  
  the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder, and         

(iv)  
  the amount of any sum received by the Agent from a Borrower hereunder and each Lender s share thereof.         

(c)  
   Evidence of Payment Obligations . Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts
pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be  prima   facie  evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from a Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of
such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error;  provided ,  however , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such
account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement.         

2.20  
   Alteration of Commitments and Addition of Lenders .         

(a)  
   Alter Lender Commitment . By a written agreement executed only by TBC, the Agent, each Issuing Bank and the affected Lender and any non-party lender involved,

(i)  
  the Commitment of such affected Lender may be increased to the amount set forth in such agreement;         

(ii)  
  such non-party lender may be added as a Lender with a Commitment as set forth in such agreement,  provided  that such lender agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions
of this Agreement; and         

(iii)  
  the unused portion of the Commitment of such affected Lender may be reduced or terminated and the Committed Advances owing to such Lender may be prepaid in whole or in part, all as
set forth in such agreement.         

(b)  
   Conditions to Alteration . The Agent may execute any such agreement without the prior consent of any Lender other than the Lender affected,  provided ,  however ,
that if at the time the Agent proposes to execute such agreement either (A) TBC s long-term senior unsecured debt is rated by any two of S P, Moody s and Fitch, lower than BBB+ by S P, lower than Baa1 by Moody s or lower
than BBB+ by Fitch or (B) a Default has occurred and is continuing, then the Agent shall not execute any such agreement unless it has first obtained the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders, and  provided   further  that the
Agent shall not execute any such agreement without the prior written consent of the Majority Lenders if such agreement would increase the total of the Commitments to an amount in excess of $2,000,000,000 or, pursuant to Section 2.20(c),
$3,000,000,000.         

(c)  
     Increase Total Commitment . The Company has the right, twice a year, to increase the total of the Commitments through a  Request for Alteration , in
minimum increments of $25,000,000, up to a maximum aggregate of Commitments of $3,000,000,000,  provided  that, in addition to the  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  31  

requirements specified in Section 2.20(b), at the time of and after giving effect to an increase, TBC s long-term senior unsecured
non-credit-enhanced debt ratings from Moody s and S P are better than or equal to Baa1 and BBB+, respectively. The Company may offer the proposed increase (the     Proposed Increased Commitment  ) to such Lender(s) or
third party financial institutions acceptable to the Agent and each Issuing Bank (    New Lenders  ) as the Borrower may select, provided that          

(i)  
  such selected Lender(s) and such New Lender(s) shall have the right, but no obligation, to increase (or establish) its Commitment, by giving notice thereof to the Agent, to all or a
portion of the Proposed Increased Commitment, allocations to be at the sole discretion of the Company, and         

(d)  
   Request for Alteration . The Agent shall give each Lender prompt notice of any such agreement becoming effective. All requests for Lender consent under the provisions of this
Section 2.20 shall specify the date upon which any such increase, addition, reduction, termination, or prepayment shall become effective (the     Effective Date  ) and shall be made by means of a  Request for
Alteration  substantially in the form as set forth in Exhibit C. On the Effective Date on which the Commitment of any Lender is increased, decreased, terminated or created or on which prepayment is made, all as described in such Request for
Alteration, the Borrowers or such Lender, as the case may be, shall make available to the Agent not later than 12:30 p.m. (New York City time) on such date, in same day funds, the amount, if any, which may be required (and the Agent shall distribute
such funds received by it to the Borrowers or to such Lenders, as the case may be) so that at the close of business on such date the sum of the Committed Advances of each Lender then outstanding shall be in the same proportion to the total of the
Committed Advances of all the Lenders then outstanding as the Commitment of such Lender is to the total of the Commitments. The Agent shall give each Lender notice of the amount to be made available by, or to be distributed to, such Lender at least
3 Business Days before such payment is made.         

2.21  
   Assignments; Sales of Participations and Other Interests in Advances .         

(a)  
   Assignment of Lender Obligations . From time to time each Lender may, with the prior written consent of TBC (so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing) and
subject to the qualifications set forth below, assign to one or more Lenders or an Eligible Assignee all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the
Committed Advances owing to it, its participations in Letters of Credit and the Committed Note, if any, held by it) and will, at any time, if arranged by the Company pursuant to clause (i)(A) below upon at least 30 days  notice to such Lender
and the Agent, assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including without limitation, all of its Commitment, the Committed Advances owing to it, its participations in Letters of Credit and the
Committed Note, if any, held by it); subject to the following:         

(i)  
  If such Lender notifies TBC and the Agent of its intent to request the consent of TBC to an assignment, TBC shall have the right, for 30 days after receipt of such notice and so
long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in its sole discretion either (A) to arrange for one or more Eligible Assignees to accept such assignment (a     Required Assignment  ) or (B) to arrange for
the rights and obligations of such Lender (including, without limitation, such Lender s Commitment), and the total Commitments, to be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of such Lender s Commitment proposed to be assigned and, in
connection with such reduction, to prepay that portion of the Committed Advances owing to such Lender which it proposes to assign;           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  32  

(ii)  
  If TBC fails to notify such Lender within 30 days of TBC s receipt of such Lender s request for consent to assignment, the Borrowers shall be deemed to consent to the
proposed assignment;         

(iii)  
  Any such assignment shall not require any Borrower to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify the interests in the Committed
Advances under the blue sky laws of any state and the assigning Lender shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such assignment;         

(iv)  
  Unless TBC consents, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to any such assignment (determined as of the date of the assignment) shall either
(A) equal 50% of all such rights and obligations (or 100% in the case of a Required Assignment) or (B) not be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;         

(v)  
  Unless either (x) TBC consents or (y) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the aggregate amount of the Commitment assigned pursuant to all such assignments
of such Lender (after giving effect to such assignment) shall in no event exceed 50% (except in the case of a Required Assignment) of all such Lender s Commitment (as set forth in Schedule I, in the case of each Lender that is a party hereto as
of November 16, 2007, or as set forth in the Register as the aggregate Commitment assigned to such Lender pursuant to one or more assignments, in the case of any assignee); and         

(vi)  
  No Lender shall be obligated to make a Required Assignment unless such Lender has received payments in an aggregate amount at least equal to the outstanding principal amount of all
Committed Advances being assigned, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement (including without limitation Section 2.13(c),
 provided  that such Lender shall receive its pro rata share of the Facility Fee on the next date on which the Facility Fee is payable).         

(b)  
   Effect of Lender Assignment . From and after the effective date of any assignment pursuant to Section 2.21(a), (i) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto
and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such assignment, it shall have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (ii) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that
rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such assignment, relinquish its rights (other than its rights under Section 2.14, 2.15, 2.20 or 8.3 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior to
such assignment) and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an assignment covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender s rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to
be a party hereto).         

(c)  
     Security Interest; Assignment to Lender Affiliate . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any Lender may, upon prior or contemporaneous
notice to TBC and the Agent, at any time (i) create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including without limitation, the Advances owing to it and the Notes held by it, if any) in favor of any Federal
Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and (ii) assign all or any portion of its rights and obligations under this  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  33  

Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Committed Advances owing to it, its participations in Letters of Credit and
the Committed Note held by it, if any) to an Affiliate of such Lender  unless  the result of such an assignment would be to increase the cost to any Borrowers of requesting, borrowing, continuing, maintaining, paying or converting any Advances.

(d)  
   Agent s Register . The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.2 a copy of each assignment delivered to and accepted by it and a register for
the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Committed Advances of each Borrower owing to, each Lender from time to time (the     Register  ). The entries in the
Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrowers, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each entity whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The
Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. Upon receipt by the Agent from the assigning Lender of an assignment in form and substance
satisfactory to the Agent executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with evidence of each Committed Advance subject to such assignment, and a processing and recording fee of $3,500
(payable by either the assignor or the assignee), the Agent shall, if such assignment is a Required Assignment or has been consented to by TBC to the extent required by Section 2.21(a) or has been effected pursuant to Section 2.22(c),
(i) accept such assignment, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register, and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to TBC.         

(e)  
   Lender Sale of Participations . Each Lender may sell participations in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all
or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it, its participations in Letters of Credit and the Notes held by it, if any) to one or more Affiliates of such Lender or to one or more other commercial banks;  provided ,  however ,
that         

(i)  
  any such participation shall not require any Borrowers to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or apply to qualify any interests in the Advances
or any Notes under the blue sky laws of any state and the Lender selling or granting such participation shall otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws applicable to such transaction,         

(ii)  
  no purchaser of such a participation shall be considered to be a  Lender  for any purpose under the Agreement,         

(iii)  
  such Lender s obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrowers) shall remain unchanged,         

(iv)  
  such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations,         

(v)  
  such Lender shall remain the holder of any Notes issued with respect to its Advances for all purposes of this Agreement,         

(vi)  
  the Borrowers, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender s rights and obligations under this
Agreement, and           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  34  

(vii)  
  no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure
by any Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation,
or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.         

(f)  
   Confidential Borrower Information . Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this
Section 2.21, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrowers furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrowers;  provided ,  however , that, prior to any
such disclosure of Confidential Information, such Lender shall obtain the written consent of the Borrowers, and the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any such Confidential
Information received by it from such Lender except as disclosure may be required or appropriate to governmental authorities, pursuant to legal process, or by law or governmental regulation or authority.         

(a)  
   Extension Request . TBC may, on behalf of itself and the Subsidiary Borrowers, by written notice to the Agent in the form of Exhibit E (each such notice being an
  Extension Request  ) given no earlier than 60 days and no later than 45 days prior to any one or more anniversaries of the date hereof, request that the then applicable Termination Date be extended to a date one year after the then
applicable Termination Date. Such extension shall be effective with respect to each Lender which, by a written notice in the form of Exhibit F (a     Continuation Notice  ) to TBC and the Agent given no earlier than 45 days and
no later than 28 days prior to such anniversary, consents, in its sole discretion, to such extension (each Lender giving a Continuation Notice being referred to sometimes as a     Continuing Lender   and each Lender other than a
Continuing Lender being a     Non-Extending Lender  ),  provided ,  however , that such extension shall be effective only if the aggregate Commitments of the Continuing Lenders, together with the Commitments of the
Replacement Lenders, are not less than 51% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on the date of the Extension Request. No Lender shall have any obligation to consent to any such extension of the Termination Date. The Agent shall notify each
Lender of the receipt of an Extension Request within three (3) Business Days after receipt thereof. The Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders no later than 15 days prior to the then applicable Termination Date whether the Agent has
received Continuation Notices from Lenders holding at least 51% of the aggregate Commitments on the date of the Extension Request.         

(b)  
   Non-Extending Lenders . The Commitment of each Non-Extending Lender shall terminate at the close of business on the Termination Date in effect prior to the delivery of such
Extension Request without giving any effect to such proposed extension, provided that on the applicable anniversary date TBC may replace the Non-Extending Lenders pursuant to Section 2.22(c). On the Termination Date in effect prior to the
delivery of such Extension Request without giving any effect to such proposed extension TBC shall pay or cause to be paid to the Agent, for the account of the Non-Extending Lenders, an amount equal to the Non-Extending Lenders  Committed
Advances, together with accrued but unpaid interest and fees thereon and all other amounts then payable hereunder to the Non-Extending Lenders.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  35  

(c)  
   Replacement Lenders . A Non-Extending Lender shall be obligated, at the request of TBC, to assign at any time prior to the close of business on the applicable anniversary of
the date hereof all of its rights (other than rights that would survive the termination of the Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3) and obligations hereunder to one or more Lenders or other commercial banks nominated by TBC and willing to become
Lenders in place of such Non-Extending Lender (the     Replacement Lenders  ). In order to qualify as a Replacement Lender, a Lender or lender must satisfy all of the requirements of this Agreement (including without limitation
the terms of Section 2.21 relating to Required Assignments). Such obligation of each Non-Extending Lenders is subject to such Non-Extending Lender s receiving (i) payment in full from the Replacement Lenders of the principal amount of
all Advances owing to such Non-Extending Lender immediately prior to an assignment to the Replacement Lenders and (ii) payment in full from the relevant Borrowers of all accrued interest and fees and other amounts payable hereunder and then
owing to such Non-Extending Lender immediately prior to the assignment to the Replacement Lenders. Upon such assignment, the Non-Extending Lender shall no longer be a Lender, such Replacement Lender shall become a Continuing Lender, and the Agent
shall make appropriate entries in the Register to reflect the foregoing.         

(a)  
   Subsidiary Borrower Designation . TBC may at any time, and from time to time, by delivery to the Agent of a  Borrower Subsidiary Letter  substantially in the form of
Exhibit D, duly executed by TBC and the respective Subsidiary, designate such Subsidiary as a     Subsidiary Borrower   for purposes of this Agreement, and such Subsidiary shall thereupon become a  Subsidiary Borrower 
for purposes of this Agreement and, as such, shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Borrower hereunder;  provided  that any designation of a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States
of America shall be made only upon 30 days prior notice to the Agent. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each such designation by TBC and the identity of the designated Subsidiary. As soon as possible and in any event within 10 Business
Days after notice of the designation of a Subsidiary Borrower that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America, any Lender that may not legally lend to such Subsidiary Borrower (a     Protesting
Lender  ) shall so notify TBC and the Agent in writing. With respect to each Protesting Lender, TBC shall, effective on or before the date that such Subsidiary Borrower shall have the right to borrow hereunder, either:

(i)  
  arrange for one or more Lenders or other commercial banks to assume the Commitment of such Protesting Lender;  subject ,  however , to payment to the Agent by the assignor
or the assignee of a processing and recording fee of $3,500, in the event the assuming lender is not a Lender; or         

(ii)  
  arrange for the Commitment of such Protesting Lender to be terminated and all Committed Advances owed to such Lender to be prepaid;        subject, in either case, to payment in full of all principal, accrued and unpaid interest, fees, commissions and other amounts payable under this
Agreement and then owing to such Lender immediately prior to the assignment or termination of the Commitment of such Lender.       

(b)  
     TBC Consent to Subsidiary Borrower Borrowings and Notices . No Advances shall be made to a Subsidiary Borrower, and no Conversion of any Advances at the
request of a Subsidiary Borrower shall be effective, without, in each and every instance, the prior consent of TBC, in its sole discretion, which shall be evidenced by the countersignature of TBC to the relevant Notice of  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  36  

Borrowing or notice of Conversion. In addition, no notices which are to be delivered by a Borrower hereunder shall be effective, with respect to any
Subsidiary Borrower, unless the notice is countersigned by TBC.          

(c)  
   Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event . The occurrence of any of the following events with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower shall constitute a     Subsidiary
Borrower Termination Event   with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower:         

(i)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower ceases to be a Subsidiary;         

(ii)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower is liquidated or dissolved;         

(iii)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower fails to preserve and maintain its existence;         

(iv)  
  such Subsidiary Borrower merges or consolidates with or into another Person, or conveys, transfers, leases, or otherwise disposes of (whether in one transaction or in a series of
transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person (except that a Subsidiary Borrower may merge into or dispose of assets to another Borrower);         

(v)  
  any of the  Events of Default  described in Section 6.1(a) through (f) occurs to or with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower as if such Subsidiary Borrower were
 TBC  or         

(vi)  
  the Guaranty with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower ceases, for any reason, to be valid and binding on TBC or TBC so states in writing.         

(d)  
   Terminated Subsidiary Borrower . Upon the occurrence of a Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event with respect to any Subsidiary Borrower, such Subsidiary Borrower (a
    Terminated Subsidiary Borrower  ) shall cease to be a Borrower for purposes of this Agreement and shall no longer be entitled to request or borrow Advances hereunder. All outstanding Advances of a Terminated Subsidiary
Borrower shall be automatically due and payable as of the date on which the Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event of such Terminated Subsidiary Borrower occurred, together with accrued interest thereon and any other amounts then due and payable by
that Borrower hereunder, unless, in the case of a Subsidiary Borrower Termination Event described in paragraph (iv) of Section 2.22(c), the other Person party to the transaction is a Borrower and such other Borrower has assumed in writing
all of the outstanding Advances and other obligations under this Agreement and under any other Loan Document, of the Terminated Subsidiary Borrower.         

(e)  
   TBC as Subsidiary Borrowers  Agent . Each of the Subsidiary Borrowers hereby appoints and authorizes TBC to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such
powers under this Agreement as are delegated to TBC by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.         

(f)  
     Subsidiaries  Several Liabilities . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, each of the Subsidiary Borrowers shall be severally
liable for the liabilities and obligations of such Subsidiary Borrower under this Agreement and its Borrowings, and other Loan Documents, if any. No Subsidiary Borrower shall be liable for the obligations of any other Borrower under this Agreement
or any Borrowings of any other Borrower or any other Borrower s Notes, if any. Each Subsidiary Borrower shall be severally liable for all payments of the principal of and interest on Advances to such Subsidiary Borrower, and any other amounts
due hereunder that are  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  37  

specifically allocable to such Subsidiary Borrower or the Advances to such Subsidiary Borrower. With respect to any amounts due hereunder, including fees and
commissions, that are not specifically allocable to a particular Borrower, each Borrower shall be liable for such amount pro rata in the same proportion as such Borrower s outstanding Advances bear to the total of then-outstanding Advances to
all Borrowers.          ARTICLE 3        Representations and Warranties        

3.1  
   Representations and Warranties by the Borrowers . Each of the Borrowers represents and warrants as follows:         

(a)  
   Corporate Standing . TBC is a duly organized corporation existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each Subsidiary Borrower is duly organized, validly
existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, and each of TBC and each Subsidiary Borrower is qualified to do business in every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure to so
qualify would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of TBC and the Subsidiary Borrowers as a whole.         

(b)  
   Corporate Powers; Governmental Approvals . The execution and delivery and the performance of the terms of this Agreement are, and the execution and delivery and the
performance of the terms of any other Loan Documents and of each Guaranty will be, within the corporate powers of each Borrower party thereto, have been or will have been (as appropriate) duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, have, or
will have, received (as appropriate) all necessary governmental approval, if any (which approval, if any, remains in full force and effect), and do not contravene any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of any Borrower party
thereto, or do not contravene any law or any contractual restriction binding on any Borrower party thereto, except where such contravention would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole.         

(c)  
   Enforceability . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents, if any, when duly executed and delivered by each Borrower party thereto, will constitute legal, valid and binding
obligations of such Borrower, enforceable against such Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, and each Guaranty, when duly executed and delivered by TBC, will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of TBC, enforceable against
TBC in accordance with its terms, subject to general equitable principles and except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating
to creditors  rights.         

(d)  
   No Material Pending or Threatened Actions . In TBC s opinion, there are no pending or threatened actions or proceedings before any court or administrative agency
(i) other than as disclosed in TBC s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse affect on the financial condition or operations of the Company which is likely to materially
impair the ability of the Company to repay the Advances or (ii) which would affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Advances.         

(e)  
     Consolidated Statements . The Consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2006 and the related Consolidated statement of earnings and
retained earnings for the year then ended (copies of which have been furnished to each Lender) correctly set forth the Consolidated financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries as of such date and the result of the Consolidated  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  38  

operations for such year. The Consolidated statement of financial position as of September 30, 2007 and the related Consolidated statement of earnings
and retained earnings for the nine month period then ended (copies of which have been furnished to each Lender) correctly set forth, subject to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of TBC and its Subsidiaries as of such
date and the result of the Consolidated operations for such nine month period.          

(f)  
   Regulation U . No Borrower is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U issued by
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Following application
of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets (either of any Borrower only or of each Borrower and its subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or subject to any
restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between any Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender relating to Debt within the scope of Section 6.1(d) will be margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System).         

(g)  
   Investment Company Act . No Borrower is an  investment company,  or an  affiliated person  of, or  promoter  or  principal underwriter 
for, an  investment company,  as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Neither the making of any Advances, nor the application of the proceeds or repayment thereof by any Borrower, nor the consummation
of the other transactions contemplated hereby, will violate any provision of such Act or any rule, regulation or order of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.         

(h)  
   No Material Adverse Change . Except as disclosed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the date hereof, there has been no material adverse change in
the Company s financial condition or results of operations since December 31, 2006 that is likely to impair the ability of the Company to repay the Advances.         ARTICLE 4        Covenants of TBC        

4.1  
   Affirmative Covenants of TBC . From the date of this Agreement and so long as any amount is payable by a Borrower to any Lender hereunder or any Commitment is outstanding, TBC
will:         

(a)  
   Periodic Reports . Furnish to the Lenders:         

(1)  
  within 60 days after the close of each of the first three quarters of each of TBC s fiscal years, a Consolidated statement of financial position of TBC and the Subsidiaries as
of the end of such quarter and a Consolidated comparative statement of earnings and retained earnings of TBC and the Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, each
certified by an authorized officer of TBC,         

(2)  
    within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, and with respect to any quarter thereof, if requested in writing by the Majority Lenders (with a
copy to the Agent), within 60 days after the later of (x) the close of any of the first three quarters thereof subject of such request and (y) such request, a statement certified by an  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  39  

authorized officer of TBC showing in detail the computations required by the provisions of Sections 4.2(a) and 4.2(b), based on the figures which appear on
the books of account of TBC and the Subsidiaries at the close of such quarters,          

(3)  
  within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, a copy of the annual audit report of TBC, certified by independent public accountants of nationally recognized
standing, together with financial statements consisting of a Consolidated statement of financial position of TBC and the Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and a Consolidated statement of earnings and retained earnings of TBC and the
Subsidiaries for such fiscal year,         

(4)  
  within 120 days after the close of each of TBC s fiscal years, a statement certified by the independent public accountants who shall have prepared the corresponding audit
report furnished to the Lenders pursuant to the provisions of clause (3) of this subsection (a), to the effect that, in the course of preparing such audit report, such accountants had obtained no knowledge, except as specifically stated, that
TBC had been in violation of the provisions of any one of Sections 4.2(a), 4.2(b), 4.2(c) and 4.2(d), at any time during such fiscal year,         

(5)  
  promptly upon their becoming available, all financial statements, reports and proxy statements which TBC sends to its stockholders,         

(6)  
  promptly upon their becoming available, all regular and periodic financial reports which TBC or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national
securities exchange,         

(7)  
  within 3 Business Days after the discovery of the occurrence of any event which constitutes a Default, notice of such occurrence together with a detailed statement by a responsible
officer of TBC of the steps being taken by TBC or the appropriate Subsidiary to cure the effect of such event, and         

(8)  
  such other information respecting the financial condition and operations of TBC or the Subsidiaries as the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.     
  In lieu of furnishing the Lenders the items referred to in clauses (1), (3), (5) and (6) above, the Company may make available such items on
the Company s website at  www.boeing.com , at  www.sec.gov  or at such other website as notified to the Agent and the Lenders.       

(b)  
   Payment of Taxes ,  Etc . Duly pay and discharge, and cause each Subsidiary duly to pay and discharge, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges upon it or
against its properties prior to a date which is 5 Business Days after the date on which penalties are attached thereto, except and to the extent only that the same shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings by TBC or the
appropriate Subsidiary.         

(c)  
   Insurance . Maintain, and cause each Subsidiary to maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies or associations, insurance of the kinds, covering the
risks and in the relative proportionate amounts usually carried by companies engaged in businesses similar to that of TBC or such Subsidiary, except, to the extent consistent with good business practices, such insurance may be provided by TBC
through its program of self insurance.         

(d)  
   Corporate Existence . Preserve and maintain its corporate existence.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  40  

(e)  
   Material Compliance With Laws . Comply, and cause each Subsidiary to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws (including ERISA and applicable environmental
laws), except to the extent that failure to so comply would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Company.         

4.2  
   General Negative Covenants of TBC . From the date of this Agreement and so long as any amount shall be payable by TBC or any other Borrower to any Lender hereunder or any
Commitment shall be outstanding, TBC will not:         

(a)  
   Mortgages ,  Liens ,  Etc . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance (including the lien
or retained security title of a conditional vendor) upon or with respect to any of its Property, Plant and Equipment, or upon or with respect to the Property, Plant and Equipment of any Subsidiary, or assign or otherwise convey, or permit any
Subsidiary to assign or otherwise convey, any right to receive income from or with respect to its Property, Plant and Equipment, except         

(1)  
  liens in connection with workmen s compensation, unemployment insurance or other social security obligations;         

(2)  
  liens securing the performance of bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the repayment of borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, liens to secure
progress or partial payments made to TBC or such Subsidiary and other liens of like nature made in the ordinary course of business;         

(3)  
  mechanics , workmen s, materialmen s or other like liens arising in the ordinary course of business in respect of obligations which are not due or which are being
contested in good faith;         

(4)  
  liens for taxes not yet due or being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings by TBC or the affected Subsidiary;         

(5)  
  liens which arise in connection with the leasing of equipment in the ordinary course of business;         

(6)  
  liens on Property, Plant and Equipment owned by TBC or any Subsidiary of TBC existing on September 30, 2006;         

(7)  
  liens on assets of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC or at the time of purchase, lease, or acquisition of the
property or Voting Stock of such Person as an entirety or substantially as an entirety by TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC, whether or not any Debt secured by such liens is assumed by TBC or such Subsidiary,  provided  that such liens are not created
in anticipation of such purchase, lease, acquisition or merger;         

(8)  
  liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary of TBC owing to TBC or to another Subsidiary;         

(9)  
    liens on assets existing at the time of acquisition of such property by TBC or a Subsidiary of TBC or purchase money liens to secure the payment of all or part of
the purchase price of property upon acquisition of such assets by TBC or such Subsidiary or to secure any Debt incurred or guaranteed by TBC or a Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of the acquisition, completion
or construction (including any  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  41  

improvements on existing property), or commencement of full operation, of such property, which Debt is incurred or guaranteed solely for the purpose of
financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction or improvements thereon;  provided ,  however , that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the lien shall not apply to any property
theretofore owned by TBC or such Subsidiary other than, in the case of such construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement made is located;      

(10)  
  liens securing obligations of TBC or a Subsidiary incurred in conjunction with industrial revenue bonds or other instruments utilized in connection with incentive structures for tax
purposes issued for the benefit of TBC or a Subsidiary in connection with any Property, Plant and Equipment used by TBC or a Subsidiary;         

(11)  
  any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any lien referred to in the foregoing;  provided , 
however , that the principal amount of Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or
any part of the property that secured the lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements and construction on such property); and         

(12)  
  other liens, charges and encumbrances, so long as the aggregate amount of the Consolidated Debt for which all such liens, charges and encumbrances serve as security does not exceed
15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.         

(b)  
   Consolidated Debt . Permit Consolidated Debt (subject to Section 4.3) to be at any time more than 60% of Total Capital, where   Total Capital   means the
sum of shareholders  equity and Consolidated Debt, provided that any accumulated other comprehensive income and loss will be excluded.         

(c)  
   Payment in Violation of an Agreement . Make any payment, or permit any Subsidiary to make any payment, of principal or interest, on any Debt which payment would constitute a
violation of the terms of this Agreement or of the terms of any indenture or agreement binding on such corporation or to which such corporation is a party except, in the case of any payment made by a Subsidiary, to the extent such payment is not
likely to impair the ability of TBC to repay the Advances.         

(d)  
   Merger or Consolidation . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions)
all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person except that TBC may merge or consolidate with any Person so long as TBC is the surviving corporation and no Default has occurred and is continuing or
would result therefrom, and except that any direct or indirect Subsidiary of TBC may merge or consolidate with or into, or dispose of assets to, TBC or any other direct or indirect Subsidiary of TBC,  provided , in each case, that no Event of
Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.         

4.3  
   Financial Statement Terms . For purposes of Section 4.2(b), (a) all accounting terms shall exclude amounts attributable to Boeing Capital Services Corporation and
its Subsidiaries and Boeing Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation; and (b) Total Capital shall exclude the effects of (i) any merger-related accounting adjustments which are attributable to the merger with or acquisition of
McDonnell Douglas Corporation by TBC and (ii) any repurchase by TBC of its common stock.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  42  

4.4  
   Waivers of Covenants . The departure by TBC or any Subsidiary from the requirements of any of the provisions of this Article 4 shall be permitted only if such departure has
been consented to in advance in a writing signed by the Majority Lenders, and such writing shall be effective as a consent only to the specific departure described in such writing. Such departure by TBC or any Subsidiary when properly consented to
by the Majority Lenders shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.1(c).         ARTICLE 5        Conditions Precedent to Borrowings and Issuances        

5.1  
   Conditions Precedent to the Initial Borrowing or Initial Issuance of TBC . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance to TBC and of each Issuing Bank to issue a
Letter of Credit for the account of TBC are subject to receipt by the Agent on or before the day of the initial Borrowing or initial issuance of all of the following, each dated as of the day hereof, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent
and its counsel:         

(a)  
   Documentation . Copies of all documents, certified by an officer of TBC, evidencing necessary corporate action by TBC and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this
Agreement, to the other Loan Documents, if any, and to Guaranties to be delivered by TBC pursuant to Section 5.4(e);         

(b)  
   Officer s Certificate . A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC which certifies the names of the officers of TBC authorized to sign the Notes, if
any, and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, together with true specimen signatures of such officers and facsimile signatures of officers authorized to sign by facsimile signature (on which certificate each Lender may conclusively rely
until it receives a further certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC canceling or amending the prior certificate and submitting specimen signatures of the officers named in such further certificate);         

(c)  
   Opinion of Company Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel for TBC substantially in the form of Exhibit G and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably
request, which opinion TBC hereby expressly instructs such counsel to prepare and deliver;         

(d)  
   Opinion of Agent s Counsel . A favorable opinion of Shearman   Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit H;

(e)  
   Termination of 2006 Agreement . TBC shall have terminated in whole the commitments of the banks parties to the 2006 Credit Agreement; and         

(f)  
   Satisfaction of 2006 Agreement Obligations . TBC and its Subsidiaries shall have satisfied all of their respective obligations under the 2006 Credit Agreement including,
without limitation, the payment of all fees under such agreement.         

5.2  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Committed Borrowing and Each Issuance of TBC . The obligation of each Lender to make a Committed Advance on the occasion of each Committed

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  43  

Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit (including the initial issuance) are subject
to the further conditions precedent that on the date of the request for a Committed Borrowing, date of the requested issuance and on the date of such Borrowing or issuance, the following statements shall be true, and both the giving of the
applicable Notice of Committed Borrowing, Notice of Issuance and the acceptance by TBC of the proceeds of such Committed Borrowing or such Letter of Credit shall be a representation by TBC that:          

(a)  
  the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 (other than clause (i) of subsection (d) thereof) are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date); and         

(b)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing or issuance, which constitutes a Default.

5.3  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Bid Borrowing of TBC . The obligation of any Lender to make a Bid Advance on the occasion of a Bid Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) is
subject to the further conditions precedent that:         

(a)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . The Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Bid Borrowing with respect thereto;         

(b)  
   Bid Notes . On or before the date of such Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each
of the one or more Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Bid
Advance in accordance with Section 2.6;         

(c)  
   Periodic Reports . Each Lender intending to make a Bid Advance shall have received the statements provided (or deemed provided) by TBC pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(1),
(2) and (3); and         

(d)  
   Representations . On the date of such request and the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of
Borrowing and the acceptance by TBC of the proceeds of such Bid Borrowing shall be a representation by TBC that:         

(i)  
  the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as
of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date); and         

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Bid Borrowing, which constitutes a Default.         

5.4  
   Conditions Precedent to the Initial Borrowing and Issuance of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance to any particular Subsidiary
Borrower and of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit for the account of such Subsidiary Borrower are subject to the receipt by the Agent, on or before the day of the initial Borrowing or initial           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  44  

issuance by such Subsidiary Borrower, of all of the following, each dated on or prior to the day of the initial Borrowing or issuance, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel:          

(a)  
   Borrower Subsidiary Letter . A Borrower Subsidiary Letter, substantially in the form of Exhibit D, executed by such Subsidiary Borrower and TBC;         

(b)  
   Documentation . Copies of all documents, certified by an officer of the Subsidiary Borrower, evidencing necessary corporate action by the Subsidiary Borrower and governmental
approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and any other Loan Documents;         

(c)  
   Officer s Certificate . A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC or the Subsidiary Borrower which certifies the names of the officers of the
Subsidiary Borrower authorized to sign the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, together with true specimen signatures of such officers and facsimile signatures of officers authorized to sign by facsimile signature (on which
certificate each Lender may conclusively rely until it receives a further certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of TBC or the Subsidiary Borrower canceling or amending the prior certificate and submitting signatures of the officers
named in such further certificate);         

(d)  
   Opinion of Subsidiary Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel to the Subsidiary Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit I and as to such other matters as the
Agent may reasonably request;         

(e)  
   TBC Guaranty . A Guaranty of TBC that unconditionally guarantees the payment of all obligations of such Subsidiary Borrower hereunder and under the Notes of such Subsidiary
Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit J, executed and delivered by TBC to the Agent; and         

(f)  
   Opinion of TBC Counsel . A favorable opinion of in-house counsel to TBC, substantially in the form of Exhibit K and as to such other matters as the Agent may reasonably
request.         

5.5  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Committed Borrowing or Issuance of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of each Lender to make a Committed Advance to a Subsidiary Borrower on
the occasion of each Committed Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit for the account of such Subsidiary Borrower (including the initial issuance) are subject to the further
conditions precedent that on the date of the request for such Committed Borrowing, date of the requested issuance and the date of such Borrowing or issuance, the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of
Committed Borrowing, Notice of Issuance and the acceptance by such Subsidiary Borrower of the proceeds of such Committed Borrowing or such Letter of Credit shall be (a) a representation by such Subsidiary Borrower that:

(i)  
  the representations and warranties of that Subsidiary Borrower contained (A) in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of
each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and (B) in its Borrower Subsidiary Letter are true and correct on and as of the date of
such Borrowing or issuance, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing or issuance; and           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  45  

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing or issuance, which constitutes a Default;
       and (b) a representation by TBC that the representations and warranties of TBC contained in subsections (a) through
(g) of Section 3.1 are true and accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and that, as of each such
date, no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing or issuance, which constitutes a Default.       

5.6  
   Conditions Precedent to Each Bid Borrowing of a Subsidiary Borrower . The obligation of any Lender to make a Bid Advance to any particular Subsidiary Borrower on the occasion
of each Bid Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing) is subject to the further conditions precedent that:         

(a)  
   Notice of Bid Borrowing . The Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Bid Borrowing with respect thereto;         

(b)  
   Bid Notes . On or before the date of such Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each
of the one or more Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Bid
Advance in accordance with Section 2.6;         

(c)  
   Periodic Reports . Each Lender intending to make a Bid Advance shall have received the statements provided (or deemed provided) by TBC pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(1),
(2) and (3); and         

(d)  
   Subsidiary Representations . On the date of such request and the date of such Borrowing, the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable
Notice of Bid Borrowing and the acceptance by the Subsidiary of the proceeds of such Bid Borrowing shall be (a) a representation by such Subsidiary Borrower that:         

(i)  
  the representations and warranties contained (A) in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 hereof with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and (B) in its Borrower Subsidiary Letter are true and correct on
and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing; and         

(ii)  
  as of each such date no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the proposed Bid Borrowing which constitutes a Default.         

(e)  
   TBC Representation . A representation by TBC that the representations and warranties of TBC contained in subsections (a) through (g) of Section 3.1 are true and
accurate on and as of each such date as though made on and as of each such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date), and that, as of each such date, no event has occurred and is
continuing, or would result from the proposed Committed Borrowing which constitutes a Default.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  46  

ARTICLE 6        Events of Default        

6.1  
   Events of Default . Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:         

(a)  
  Failure by TBC to make when due any payment of principal of or interest on any Advance or under a Guaranty when the same becomes due and payable and such failure is not remedied
within 5 Business Days thereafter;         

(b)  
  Any representation or warranty made by TBC in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Borrowings or any Guaranty, or otherwise furnished pursuant hereto
proves to have been incorrect when made in any material respect;         

(c)  
  Failure by TBC to perform any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement, and such failure is not remedied within 30 days after written notice thereof has been
given to TBC by the Agent, at the request, or with the consent, of the Majority Lenders;         

(d)  
  Failure by TBC to pay when due (i) any obligation for the payment of borrowed money on any regularly scheduled payment date or following acceleration thereof or (ii) any
other monetary obligation if, in the case of either of clauses (i) or (ii), the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the obligations with respect to which such failure to pay or acceleration occurred equals or exceeds $150,000,000 and such
failure is not remedied within 5 Business Days after TBC receives notice thereof from the Agent or the creditor on such obligation;         

(e)  
  TBC or any of its Subsidiaries         

(B)  
  otherwise under Title IV of ERISA as a result of any reportable event within the meaning of ERISA (other than a reportable event as to which the provision of 30 days  notice is
waived under applicable regulations);         

(3)  
  incurs liability under Title IV of ERISA         

(A)  
  in excess of $150,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Person that is a member of the  controlled group  (as defined in
Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA) of the Company or any Subsidiary having filed a notice of intent to terminate any employee pension benefit plan under the  distress termination  provision of Section 4041 of ERISA, or

(B)  
  in excess of $150,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation having instituted proceedings to terminate, or to have a trustee appointed to
administer, any such plan;           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  47  

(f)  
  The happening of any of the following events, provided such event has not then been cured or stayed:         

(1)  
  the cessation by TBC of the payment of its Debts as they mature,         

(2)  
  the making of an assignment for the benefit of the creditors of TBC,         

(3)  
  the appointment of a trustee or receiver or liquidator for TBC or for a substantial part of its property, or         

(4)  
  the institution of bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or similar proceedings by or against TBC under the laws of any jurisdiction in which TBC is organized or has
material business, operations or assets and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in
such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or any substantial part of its property and assets) shall occur; or

(g)  
  So long as any Subsidiary is a Borrower hereunder, the Guaranty with respect to such Subsidiary Borrower for any reason ceases to be valid and binding on TBC or TBC so states in
writing.         

6.2  
   Lenders  Rights upon Borrower Default . If an Event of Default occurs or is continuing, then the Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority
Lenders, by notice to TBC,         

(a)  
  declare the obligation of each Lender to make further Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.3(f)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue
Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and         

(b)  
  declare the Advances, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest, and all
such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers,  provided ,  however , that in the event of an
actual entry or, in the case of the institution by the Borrower of a proceeding described in Section 6.1(f)(4), a deemed entry, of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (whether in connection with a
voluntary or an involuntary case), (i) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.3(f)) and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically
be terminated and (ii) the payment obligations of the Borrowers with respect to Advances, all such interest, and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, or any notice of any
kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers.         

6.3  
   Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Borrower Default . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at
the request, of the Majority Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.2 or otherwise, make demand upon TBC to, and forthwith upon such demand TBC will           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  48  

(a)  
  pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent s office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the
aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding or         

(b)  
  make such other reasonable arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Majority Lenders,  provided ,  however , that in the
event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (whether in connection with a voluntary or an involuntary case), the obligation of TBC to pay to the Agent on behalf of the
Lenders in same day funds, for deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit then outstanding shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand,
protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers. If at any time the Agent reasonably determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account are subject to any right or interest of any Person other
than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit, the Borrowers will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited
and held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) such aggregate Available Amount over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Deposit Account that are free and clear of any such right
and interest. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Deposit Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law, and if so applied, then
such reimbursement shall be deemed a repayment of the corresponding Advance in respect of such Letter of Credit. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and
under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such L/C Cash Deposit Account shall be promptly returned to TBC.         ARTICLE 7        The Agent        

7.1  
   Authorization and Action . Each Lender (in its capacities as a Lender and Issuing Bank, as applicable) hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on
its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including
without limitation, enforcement or collection of any Notes), the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or
refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Lenders or as otherwise required by Section 8.1(b) and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of interests in Advances;  provided ,  however ,
that the Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the
Borrowers pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Agent further agrees to make a request pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(8) at the request of any Lender, and to share such requested information with the Lenders.         

7.2  
   Agent s Reliance, Etc.  Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or
them under or in connection           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  49  

with this Agreement, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:

(a)  
  may treat the Lender that made any Advance as the payee thereof until the Agent receives and accepts an assignment entered into by such Lender, as assignor, and an Eligible
Assignee, as assignee, as provided in Section 2.21;         

(b)  
  may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrowers), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or
omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or other experts;         

(c)  
  makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or
in connection with this Agreement;         

(d)  
  shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of any Borrower or
to inspect the property (including the books and records) of any Borrower;         

(e)  
  shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of, or the perfection or priority of any lien or
security interest created or purported to be created under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and         

(f)  
  shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier, cable or
telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.         

7.3  
   Citibank, N.A. and its Affiliates . With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it, and any Notes issued to it, Citibank, N.A. shall have the same rights and powers
under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent hereunder; and the term  Lender  or  Lenders  shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include Citibank, N.A., in its
individual capacity. Citibank, N.A. and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, accept drafts drawn by, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Company, any of its Subsidiaries and
any person or entity who may do business with or own securities of the Company or any Subsidiary, all as if Citibank, N.A. were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the other Lenders.         

7.4  
   Lender Credit Decision . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements
referred to in Section 3.1(e) and the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.1 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.
Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in
taking or not taking action under this Agreement.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  50  

(a)  
  Each Lender agrees to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by TBC or any other Borrower), from and against its Ratable Share of any and all liabilities, obligations,
losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or
any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the   Indemnified Costs  ),  provided  that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent s gross
negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection
with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement to
the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by TBC or any other Borrower.         

(b)  
  Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Issuing Banks (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by TBC) from and against such Lender s Ratable Share of any and all
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against any Issuing Bank in any way relating to or
arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Issuing Bank hereunder or in connection herewith;  provided , that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties,
actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from such Issuing Bank s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse any such Issuing Bank promptly upon
demand for its Ratable Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) payable by TBC under Section 8.3, to the extent that such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by TBC.     

(c)  
  The failure of any Lender to reimburse the Agent or any Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any amount required to be paid by the Lenders to the Agent as
provided herein shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to reimburse the Agent or any Issuing Bank for its Ratable Share of such amount, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to reimburse the
Agent or any Issuing Bank for such other Lender s Ratable Share of such amount. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of any Lender hereunder, the agreement and obligations of each Lender contained in this Section 7.5
shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes. Each of the Agent and each Issuing Bank agrees to return to the Lenders their respective Ratable Shares of any amounts paid under
this Section 7.5 that are subsequently reimbursed by TBC or any Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.5 applies whether any such investigation, litigation
or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.         

7.6  
   Successor Agent . The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and TBC and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority
Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of TBC (if no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), which shall not be unreasonably withheld, to appoint a successor Agent, which
shall be a commercial bank           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  51  

organized or licensed under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least
$50,000,000. If no successor Agent has been so appointed by the Majority Lenders, and has accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent s giving of notice of resignation or the removal of the retiring Agent as provided
herein, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent which meets the requirements set out in the previous sentence. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor
Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring
Agent s resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Article 7 shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement.          

7.7  
   Certain Obligations May Be Performed by Affiliates . The Agent may appoint any of its Affiliates to perform its obligations hereunder other than any obligation requiring the
Agent to receive, pay, or otherwise handle funds or Notes, and  provided  that the Agent shall continue to be responsible to the Borrowers and the Lenders for the due performance of the Agent s obligations under this Agreement.

7.8  
   Other Agents . Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the documentation agent, syndication agent nor any other Lender designated as any  Agent  (other than the
Agent) on the signature pages hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.         ARTICLE 8  
      Miscellaneous        

8.1  
   Modification, Consents and Waivers .         

(a)  
   Waiver . No failure or delay on the part of any Lender in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise
of any such right or power preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power hereunder. No notice to or demand on the Borrowers in any case shall entitle the Borrowers to any other or further notice or demand
in similar or other circumstances.         

(b)  
   Amendment . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any Committed Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom, shall in any event be
effective unless such amendment, waiver or consent is in writing and signed by the Company and the Majority Lenders, and then such amendment, waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
given;  provided ,  however , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following:         

(i)  
  waive any of the conditions specified in Section 5.1 or 5.4,         

(ii)  
  except as provided in Section 2.20 or Section 2.22, increase the Commitments of the Lenders or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations,     

(iii)  
  reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Committed Advances or any fees, commissions or other amounts payable hereunder,           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  52  

(iv)  
  except as provided in Section 2.22, postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Committed Advances or any fees, commissions or other amounts
payable hereunder,         

(v)  
  change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Committed Advances or the number of Lenders required for the Lenders or any of them to
take any action hereunder,         

(vi)  
  amend this Section 8.1, or         

(vii)  
  release TBC from any of its obligations under any Guaranty or limit the liability of TBC as guarantor thereunder;        and  provided   further  that no amendment, waiver, or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders
required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note and no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to
take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks in their capacities as such under this Agreement.       

(c)  
   Majority Lenders . Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 8.1 shall not affect the provisions of Section 4.4,  Waivers of Covenants , or Article 6,
 Events of Default .         

(a)  
   Addresses . All communications and notices provided for hereunder shall be in writing and mailed, telecopied, telexed or delivered and,        if to the Agent,      Citibank, N.A.   
  Two Penns Way, Suite 200      New Castle,
Delaware 19720      Attention: Bank Loans Syndications Department      facsimile number (212) 994 0961;      if to any Borrower,      care of The Boeing Company      100 N. Riverside
     Mail Code: 5003 3648      Chicago,
Illinois 60606      Attention: Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Finance and Banking      facsimile number (312) 544-2399      if to
any Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office; or,      as to each party, at such other address as designated by such party in a written notice to
each other party referring specifically to this Agreement.         

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  53  

(b)  
   Effectiveness of Notices . All communications and notices shall, when mailed, telecopied, or telexed, be effective when deposited in the mail, telecopied, or confirmed by
telex answerback, respectively. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Notes or of any Exhibit to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart thereof.         

(c)  
   Electronic Mail . Electronic mail may be used to distribute routine communications, such as financial statements and other information, and documents to be signed by the
parties hereto;  provided ,  however , that no Notice of Borrowing, signature, or other notice or document intended to be legally binding shall be effective if sent by electronic mail.         

(d)  
   Internet Distributions .         

(1)  
  So long as Citibank or any of its Affiliates is the Agent, such materials as may be agreed between the Borrowers and the Agent may be delivered to the Agent in an electronic medium
in a format acceptable to the Agent and the Lenders by e-mail at oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com. The Borrowers agree that the Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating
to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the   Communications  ) available to the Lenders by posting
such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the   Platform  ). The Borrowers acknowledge that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are
confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided  as is  and  as available  and (iii) neither the Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or
completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any
warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.

(2)  
  Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a   Notice  ) specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall
constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement;  provided  that if requested by any Lender the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by
email or telecopier. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lender s e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender
becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.         

8.3  
   Costs, Expenses and Taxes .         

(a)  
    TBC shall pay upon written request all reasonable costs and expenses in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, modification and amendment requested
by any of the Borrowers of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties (including, without limitation, printing costs and the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Agent) and costs and expenses, if any, in connection with
the enforcement of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  54  

(whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise and including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel),
as well as any and all stamp and other taxes, and to save the Lenders and other holders of interests in the Advances or any Notes harmless from any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay by or omission of the Borrowers to
pay such taxes, if any, which may be payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any Notes and the Guaranties.          

(b)  
  TBC agrees to indemnify the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an   Indemnified
Party  ) from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities, penalties and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in
each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the Advances, this Agreement, the
Notes, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense resulted from such Indemnified Party s gross negligence or
willful misconduct and except that no Indemnified Party shall have the right to be indemnified hereunder to the extent such indemnification relates to relationships of, between or among each of, or any of, the Agent, the Lenders, any assignee of a
Lender or any participant. In the case of any investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which this Section 8.3 applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by TBC, its
directors, shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or an Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Borrowers also agree not to assert any
claim on any theory of liability for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, arising out of or
otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of Advances.         

(c)  
  Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrowers hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrowers contained in Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 8.3
shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes for a period of seven years.         

8.4  
   Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Agent, and their respective successors and assigns, except
that the Borrowers may not assign or transfer their rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the Lenders.         

8.5  
   Severability . Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such
prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.

8.6  
   Governing Law . This Agreement, any Notes, the Guaranties and each Borrower Subsidiary Letter shall be deemed to be contracts under the laws of the State of New York and for
all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State.         

8.7  
   Headings . The Table of Contents and Article and Section headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  55  

8.8  
   Execution in Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a
manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.         

8.9  
   Right of Set-Off . Each Lender and each of its Affiliates that is or was at one time a Lender hereunder is authorized at any time and from time to time, upon

(i)  
  the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and         

(ii)  
  the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.2 to authorize the Agent to declare any Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.2,        to the fullest extent permitted by law, without notice to any Borrower (any such notice being expressly
waived by each Borrower), to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the
account of any Borrower against any and all of the obligations to such Lender or such Affiliate of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Notes held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender has made a demand under
this Agreement or such Notes and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender shall promptly notify any Borrower after any such setoff and application made by such Lender,  provided  that the failure to give such notice shall not
affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of setoff) which such Lender and its Affiliates may have.

8.10  
     Confidentiality . Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other Person without the consent of a Borrower, other than

(a)  
  to the Agent s or such Lender s Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives and advisors ( Permitted Parties ) and their
respective professional advisors and, as contemplated by Section 2.21(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants and their respective agents and advisors, and then only on a confidential basis,         

(b)  
  as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process,         

(c)  
  any rating agency, or direct or indirect provider of credit protection to any Permitted Party, and then only on a confidential basis; and         

(d)  
  as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign regulatory, supervisory, governmental or quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction over a Permitted Party or examiner
regulating banks or banking or other financial institutions.         

8.11  
   Agreement in Effect . This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution and delivery, respectively, to the Agent and TBC by TBC and the Agent, and when the Agent shall
have been notified by each Lender listed on Schedule I that such Lender has executed it.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  56  

8.12  
   No Liability of the Issuing Banks . None of the Agent, the Lenders nor any Issuing Bank, nor any of their Affiliates, or the respective directors, officers, employees, agents
and advisors of such Person or such Affiliate, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder, or any error,
omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of
technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the applicable Issuing Bank;  provided  that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the applicable Borrower to the extent of
any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by such Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank s failure to
exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or any failure to honor a Letter of Credit where such Issuing Bank is, under applicable law, required to honor it. The
parties hereto expressly agree that, as long as the Issuing Bank has not acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct, such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and
without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, an Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and
make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.

8.13  
   Patriot Act Notice . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of Section 326
of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub.L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) and the promulgated regulations thereto (the   Patriot Act  ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each
Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. Each Borrower shall provide, to
the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.     

(a)  
    Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State
court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement
of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted
by law, in such federal court. The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to
the Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.2. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  57  

conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect
any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.          

(b)  
  Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the
laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.           

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  58  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their officers thereunto duly
authorized as of the day and year first above written.        

THE BOEING COMPANY    

By   

Title:   
     
    Assistant Treasurer    

CITIBANK, N.A., Individually and as Agent    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

Syndication Agent     

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

Documentation Agents     

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

Five-Year Credit Agreement  

THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD. SEATTLE BRANCH    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

Lenders     

BARCLAYS BANK PLC    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

BNP PARIBAS    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

By   

Name:   

Title:   

CREDIT SUISSE, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

MORGAN STANLEY BANK    

By   

Name:   

Title:   

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  2  

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORPORATION (Recourse only to assets of William Street Commitment Corporation)    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK, NEW YORK BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  3  

STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA S.A.    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

COMERICA BANK    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

ING BANK N.V., DUBLIN BRANCH    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  4  

AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LIMITED    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

BMO CAPITAL MARKETS FINANCING, INC.    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A.    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

By  

Name:  

Title:  

KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

SOCIETE GENERALE    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

U.S. BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  5  

WESTPAC BANKING CORPORATION    

By  

Name:  

Title:  

Five-Year Credit Agreement  
      
  6  

</EX-10.II>

<EX-10.XXX>
 4
 dex10xxx.htm
 SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION AGREEMENT, J. MICHAEL LUTTIG

Supplemental Pension Agreement, J. Michael Luttig 

EXHIBIT 10(xxx)       SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION AGREEMENT      This Supplemental Pension Agreement (the Agreement) is entered on the date
indicated below between J. Michael Luttig (the Executive) and The Boeing Company (the Company). The Company hereby agrees to the following:       

1.  
  In addition to any pension benefits Executive earns under any qualified or nonqualified retirement plan sponsored by the Company, the Company agrees to pay Executive the sum of
$225,000 each year until Executive s death, commencing the first of the month after Executive reaches age 65, or in the event of Executive s death, to Executive s beneficiary until Executive would have reached age 85, to be paid as
follows:         

a.  
  Subject to paragraph 4.a., a lump sum payment of the net present value of a life and 20-year certain annuity commencing the first of the month after Executive reaches age 65, as
calculated by the Company s actuary using the same actuarial assumptions as in effect under the Company s Pension Value Plan for calculating lump sum payments as of the date such payment is payable. The lump sum will be paid within 30 days
after the earlier of (i) the date Executive reaches age 65, or (ii) the date Executive  separates from service  (as defined below) for any reason, subject to paragraph 4.a.; provided that if Executive is a  specified
employee  (as defined below), such lump sum payment shall be made as of the first day of the month following the six month anniversary of the date Executive separates from service (or earlier, if Executive dies), plus simple interest for such
six-month delay (or shorter period in the event of Executive s death) calculated at the discount rate used to determine the lump sum.         

b.  
  Subject to paragraph 4.a., if Executive dies prior to receiving any payment under paragraph 1.a., the net present value of the lump sum payment under paragraph 1.a. as of
Executive s death will be paid to Executive s beneficiary (or if none, because either Executive has not designated one or the most recently designated beneficiary predeceases Executive, to Executive s Estate) within 30 days following
such death.         

2.  
  Executive may elect to change the form and timing of payment under paragraphs 1.a. and 1.b. above as follows:         

a.  
  Prior to December 31, 2007, Executive may elect to change the form and timing of payment under paragraph 1 above to a life and 20-year certain annuity commencing the first of
the month after Executive reaches age 65, or to defer payment of the lump sum to a later payment date, by executing a mutually acceptable payment election form with the Company, subject to the provisions of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2006-79
and the Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the  Code ).     

b.  
  On and after January 1, 2008, Executive may elect to change the form and timing of payment under paragraph 1 above (as the same may have been changed under 2.a. above) to a
life and 20-year certain annuity commencing the first of the month after Executive reaches age 65, or to defer payment of the lump sum to a later payment date, by executing a mutually acceptable payment election form with the Company, provided that,
to the extent required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, such payment election form (i) must be executed at least twelve months prior to the date payment was otherwise scheduled to be made, (ii) may not take effect until
at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made, and (iii) must specify a payment date that is at least five years after the date payment was otherwise scheduled to be made. If any such change or deferral results in a payment
that is made or commences later than the January after Executive reaches age 65, then:         

i.  
  the applicable payment form shall be increased to the actuarial equivalent of a life and 20-year certain annuity commencing the first of the month after Executive reaches age 65, as
calculated by the Company s actuary; and         

ii.  
  in the case of any installment payments, the date payments to Executive s beneficiary commence and end shall be correspondingly adjusted to reflect the new scheduled payment
commencement date plus 20 years.         

3.  
  Applicable withholdings shall be made from all payments, and the Company shall deduct from any payments any amounts owed by Executive to the Company.         

4.  
  The payments described in paragraph 1 are subject to the following terms and conditions:         

a.  
  If within three years of commencing his employment Executive either voluntarily leaves the Company or is terminated for cause, Executive shall be entitled to no payments. Should
either of those events occur after Executive s three-year anniversary, Executive (or Executive s beneficiary or estate, as applicable) shall remain entitled to the payments described in paragraph 1.         

b.  
  If, at any time after commencement of employment and prior to reaching age 65, Executive is laid off or becomes unable to work on a permanent basis due to disability (as defined
below) or death, having not voluntarily left the Company or been dismissed for cause within three years of commencing his employment, Executive (or Executive s beneficiary or estate, as applicable) shall remain entitled to the payments
described in paragraph 1.         

5.  
    The Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (or its delegate) shall make such rules, interpretations, determinations of fact and
computations under this Agreement as it may, in its sole and absolute discretion, deem appropriate. Any decision of the Committee with respect to the  
          
   -2-   

Agreement, including (without limitation) any calculation of a payment, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. Nothing in this paragraph 5 shall
give the Committee the unilateral right to change the terms of this Agreement or the amount of the payment due hereunder as described above.          

6.  
  Except to the extent provided in the paragraph 4.a. above, the right of Executive, his beneficiary or estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall not be subject to
anticipation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, nor shall such right be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of Executive or Executive s beneficiary or estate.         

7.  
  It is intended that any amounts payable under this Agreement and the Company s and Executive s exercise of authority or discretion hereunder shall comply with the
provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive to the payment of interest and tax penalty which may be imposed under Code Section 409A. In furtherance of this interest,
(a) the parties intend that the terms and provisions of this Agreement be interpreted and applied in a manner that satisfies the requirements and exemptions of code Section 409A, and (b) to the extent that any regulations or other
guidance issued under Code Section 409A after the date of this Agreement would result in Executive being subject to payment of interest and tax penalty under Code Section 409A, the parties agree to amend this Agreement in order to bring
this Agreement into compliance with Code Section 409A. For purposes of this Agreement:         

a.  
   Disability  means Executive is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.         

b.  
   Separation from service  or  separates from service  means Executive s death, retirement or termination of employment from the Company within the meaning
of Code Section 409A. For purposes of determining whether a Separation from Service has occurred, subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company are only those included by using the language  at least eighty percent (80%)  to define the
controlled group under Code Section 1563(a) in lieu of the fifty percent (50%) default rule stated in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3). A Separation from Service is deemed to include a reasonably anticipated permanent reduction in
the level of services performed by Executive, to less than fifty percent (50%) of the average level of services performed by Executive during the immediately preceding 36-month period.         

c.  
   Specified employee  means an employee who is a  specified employee  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. Specified Employee status is determined on the
last day of the prior calendar year, to take effect as of April 1 of the next calendar year for a 12-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Specified Employees shall be determined by including the employees whom the Company reasonably
determines to be the 75 top-paid officers of the Company rather than the 50 top-paid officers as provided under Code Section 416(i)(1)(A), to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A.           
   -3-   

8.  
  This Agreement may not be modified, altered or changed except upon express written consent of both parties wherein specific reference is made to this Agreement.
       Dated November 14, 2007.      J. Michael
Luttig      Executive      The Boeing Company      By Rick Stephens      Title: Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Admin.
        
   -4-   

</EX-10.XXX>

<EX-21>
 5
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF COMPANY SUBSIDIARIES

List of Company Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

692567 Ontario Limited   
      
  Ontario   
 
    757UA, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    767ER, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    AeroSpace Employees  Superannuation Fund Pty Ltd   
      
      Australia   
 
    AeroSpace Technologies of Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Aileron Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Akash, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Aldford-1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Alteon Training Asia LLC   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Alteon Training Australia Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Alteon Training Holding UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Alteon Training International Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Alteon Training L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Alteon Training Leasing Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Alteon Training Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Alteon Training Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Alteon Training Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Alteon Training UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Astro Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Astro-II, Inc.   
      
  Vermont   
 
    Atara Services Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Autometric, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Autonetics, Inc. (Namesaver Only)   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Autonomous Underwater Ventures, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Aviall (Canada) Ltd.   
      
  Ontario   
 
    Aviall Airstocks Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Aviall Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Aviall Australia Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Aviall de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Aviall Japan Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Aviall New Zealand   

Aviall Product Repair Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Aviall PTE LTD   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Aviall Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Aviall UK Limited   

Aviall, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC (Aircraft Acquisitions) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    BCC Aruba Leasing A.V.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
    BCC Bolongo Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Bolongo Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    BCC Bucuti Leasing A.V.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
    BCC Carbita Point Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Carbita Point Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    BCC Cascades Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Charlotte Amalie Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Charlotte Amalie Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
       
   121   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

BCC Cove Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Drakes Passage Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Equipment Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Grand Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    BCC Hamilton   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    BCC Lindbergh Bay Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Mafolie Hill Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Magens Bay Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Mahogany Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Red Hook Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Riverside Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BCC Shannon Leasing   
      
  Ireland   
 
    BCC St. George Leasing Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Beaufoy-1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNA International Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNA Operations International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNJ Net Jets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNJ Sales Company L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNJ, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing   Corinth Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing   Irving Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing (Asia) Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company   
      
      Hong Kong   
 
    Boeing (Asia) Services Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company   
      
      Hong Kong   
 
    Boeing (China) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Boeing (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Boeing (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Boeing 100 North Riverside LLC   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Boeing Aerospace   TAMS, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Middle East Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Operations   International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Operations, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Poland sp. z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Boeing Aerospace Switzerland, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Airborne Surveillance Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Aircraft Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Australia Commercial Aviation Services Pty Ltd   
      
      Australia   
 
    Boeing Australia Holdings Proprietary Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Boeing Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   
       
   122   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

Boeing Brasil Servicos Technicos Aeronauticos Ltda (an Brazil LLC)   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Boeing Business Services Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Canada Holding Ltd.   
      
  Alberta   
 
    Boeing Canada Operations Ltd.   
      
  Alberta   
 
    Boeing Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Capital Leasing Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Boeing Capital Loan Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Capital Securities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Capital Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Capital Washington Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing CAS GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Boeing CAS Holding GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Boeing Cesk  s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Boeing China, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Commercial Space Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Constructors, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Boeing Defence UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Boeing Domestic Sales Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Boeing Enterprises Australia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Financial Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Boeing Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Boeing Global Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Global Sales Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Global Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Group United Kingdom Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Boeing Hornet Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing International B.V.   Co. Holding KGaA   
      
  Germany   
 
    Boeing International Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing International Corporation India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Boeing International Holdings, Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Boeing International Logistics Spares, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing International Overhaul   Repair Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing International Sales Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Boeing International Support Services Company Saudi Arabia Limited   
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Boeing Investment Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Boeing Launch Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Leasing Company   
      
  Delaware   
       
   123   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

Boeing Logistics Spares, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing LTS, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Management Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Middle East Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing Netherlands C.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing Netherlands Leasing, B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing Nevada, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing North American Space Alliance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing North American Space Operations Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Norwegian Holdings AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Boeing of Canada Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Offset Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Operations International, Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Overseas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Phantom Works Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Pharmacy, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Precision Gear, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Realty Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Boeing Research   Technology Europe, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Boeing Russia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Sales Corporation   
      
  Guam   
 
    Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Service Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    Boeing Space Operations Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Spain, Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Stellar Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing Stores, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Superannuation Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Boeing Support Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing Sweden Holdings AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Boeing Travel Management Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boeing United Kingdom Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Boeing Worldwide Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Boeing Worldwide Operations Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Boeing-SVS, Inc.   
      
  Nevada   
 
    CAG, Inc.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Canard Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Carmen Options Sweden AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    CBSA Leasing II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CBSA Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CBSA Partners, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
       
   124   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

Chartworx Holland B.V.   
      
  Holland   
 
    C-Map Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    C-Map Baltic Ltd.   
      
  Estonia   
 
    C-Map Commercial, Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    C-Map Hellas Ltd.   
      
  Greece   
 
    C-Map Holland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    C-Map India Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    C-Map Italia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    C-Map Japan Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    C-Map Korea Co., Ltd.   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    C-Map Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    C-Map Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    C-Map Marine Forecast AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    C-Map Poland Sp.zo.o   
      
  Poland   
 
    C-Map South Africa Pty Ltd   
      
  South Africa   
 
    C-Map Ukraine   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    C-Map USA, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Connexion by Boeing Eastern Europe Limited Liability   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Connexion by Boeing Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Connexion By Boeing Of Canada Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Conquest, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Continental DataGraphics Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Continental Graphics Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Continental Graphics Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cougar, Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cruise L.L.C.   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Delmar Photographic   Printing Company   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Dillon, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Douglas Express Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    Douglas Federal Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    Douglas Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DP Properties, L. P.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Falcon II Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    Falcon Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    Frontier Systems, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    FSBTI Argentina S.R.L.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Gaucho-1 Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gaucho-2 Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hanway Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hawk Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Aerospace Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Components Pty Limited   
      
  New South Wales   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Equipment Pty Limited   
      
  Western Australia   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  New South Wales   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Inc. (INACTIVE)   
      
  California   
       
   125   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

Hawker de Havilland Pty Ltd   
      
  New South Wales   
 
    Hawker de Havilland Victoria Pty Limited   
      
  Victoria   
 
    ILS eBusiness Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Integrated Chemical Management Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Intellibus Network Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Inventory Locator Service, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Inventory Locator Service-UK, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jeppesen (Canada) Ltd.   
      
  Quebec   
 
    Jeppesen Asia/Pacific Ptd. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Jeppesen Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Jeppesen DataPlan, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jeppesen Estonia   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Jeppesen GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Jeppesen Italia S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Jeppesen Marine UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Jeppesen Marine, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jeppesen Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Jeppesen Optimization Solution AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Jeppesen Optimization Solutions Holding Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Jeppesen Optimization Solutions Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Jeppesen Optimization Solutions UK Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Jeppesen Optimization Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jeppesen S.A.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Jeppesen Sanderson, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jeppesen Systems AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Jeppesen Systems, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Jeppesen U.K. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Kunming Alteon Boeing Advanced Flight Training Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Kuta-One Aircraft Corporation, Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Kuta-Two Aircraft Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Kystatlas AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Longacres Park, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Aircraft Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Arabia, Limited   
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Corporation   
      
  Maryland   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Dakota Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Express, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas F-15 Technical Services Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Foreign Sales Corporation   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Support Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Indonesia Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Middle East, Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
       
   126   

EXHIBIT (21) - List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries          

Name   
      
     Place of       Incorporation     

McDonnell Douglas Services, Inc.   
      
  Missouri   
 
    McDonnell Douglas Truck Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MD Indonesia Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDAFC - Nashville Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MD-Air Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Aircraft Leasing Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Aircraft Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Carson Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Carson Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Express Leasing Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Express Leasing Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Knoxville Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Knoxville Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Lakewood Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Memphis Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Memphis Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Reno Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Sierra Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC - Spring Limited   
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
    MDFC - Tahoe Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MDFC Spring Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MD-Federal Holding Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Montana Aviation Research Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morintech Ltd.   
      
  Russia   
 
    ORCAS Leasing B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Pacific Business Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Preston Aviation Solutions Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Preston Aviation Solutions Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Preston Aviation Solutions Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Processing Properties, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Raven Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-4 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-5 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RGL-6 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solhoi AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Spectrolab, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Sunshine Leasing Company-1   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Taiko Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Team Apache Systems, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Thayer Leasing Company-1   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Boeing Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wingspan, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    World Navigation Management B.V.   
      
  Holland   
 
    Yunnan Alteon Boeing Advanced Flight Training Co., Ltd   
      
  China   

Total Number of Subsidiaries: 305  

127   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT (23)              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-25332, 33-31434, 33-43854, 33-58798, 33-52773, 333-03191, 333-16363, 333-26867, 333-32461, 333-32491, 333-32499, 333-32567, 333-35324, 333-41920, 333-47450, 333-54234, 333-73252, 333-107677, and 333-140837
on Form S-8, Post-Effective Amendments to Registration Statement Nos. 333-03191, 333-47450, 333-35324 on Form S-8, and Registration Statement Nos. 333-99509 and 333-113844 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 13, 2008, relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Boeing Company (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company s changes in accounting for pension and postretirement
benefits), and the effectiveness of The Boeing Company s internal control over financial reporting appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2007. We also consent to the reference to us under the heading
 Experts  in the Prospectus, which is part of the registration statements on Form S-3.            /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP            Chicago, Illinois      February 13, 2008         
   128   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.I>
 7
 dex31i.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Section 302 Certification of CEO 

EXHIBIT (31) (i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             I, W. James McNerney, Jr., certify that:         

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;          

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;            

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;            

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:            

(a)  
     
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;            

(b)  
     
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;            

(c)  
     
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and            

(d)  
     
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):            

(a)  
     
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and            

(b)  
     
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.               Date: February 14, 2008   

/ S /    W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY , J R .
     W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    
       
   129   

</EX-31.I>

<EX-31.II>
 8
 dex31ii.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Section 302 Certification of CFO 

EXHIBIT (31) (ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             I, James A. Bell, certify that:         

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;          

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;            

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;            

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:            

(a)  
     
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;            

(b)  
     
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;            

(c)  
     
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and            

(d)  
     
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):            

(a)  
     
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and            

(b)  
     
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.               Date: February 14, 2008         

/ S /    J AMES  A. B ELL      James A. Bell     Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer    
       
   130   

</EX-31.II>

<EX-32.I>
 9
 dex32i.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Section 906 Certification of CEO 

EXHIBIT (32) (i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2007, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, W. James McNerney, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:         

(1)  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and            

(2)  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/ S /    W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY , J R .
     W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    
          February 14, 2008         
   131   

</EX-32.I>

<EX-32.II>
 10
 dex32ii.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Section 906 Certification of CFO 

EXHIBIT (32) (ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002             In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2007, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James A. Bell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:         

(1)  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and            

(2)  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/ S /    J AMES  A. B ELL      James A. Bell     Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer    
          February 14, 2008         
   132   

</EX-32.II>

