<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090209_10-K_edgar_data_12927_0001193125-09-022654_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1882957</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>378388</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>45802</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1177749</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>146</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-022654.hdr.sgml : 20090209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090209171011
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-022654
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BOEING CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000012927
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT [3721]
		IRS NUMBER:				910425694
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00442
		FILM NUMBER:		09582073

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 3707 MS 1F 31
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98124
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2066552121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 N RIVERSIDE PLZ
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60606

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOEING AIRPLANE CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730725

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 C+kaoDO1iCGQTL/jXn2KVB2THYdmhYH6ggjQwwtfQY5vCA5Bc3lzOZaqQxAc0FLU
 7I0uSPIG2d5CH5AhPwO9IA==

 0001193125-09-022654.txt : 20090209

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K       (Mark One)       
    For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2008       OR       
    For the transition period from                        to
                            Commission file number
 1-442        THE BOEING COMPANY              (Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (312) 544-2000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each
class                          

Name of each exchange on which
registered           
 
  Common Stock, $5 par value  

New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes         No                   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes         No                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes         No                   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large
accelerated filer         Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated filer           (Do not check if a smaller reporting
company)  Smaller reporting company               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes       
  No                  As of June 30,
2008, there were 711,728,898 common shares outstanding held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, and the aggregate market value of the common shares (based upon the closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange) was approximately $46.8
billion.      The number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of February 6, 2009 was 726,127,813.      (This number includes 28 million outstanding shares held by the ShareValue Trust which are not eligible to vote.)       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Part III incorporates information by reference to the registrant s
definitive proxy statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.   

Table of Contents  

    THE BOEING COMPANY        FORM 10-K        For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2008          INDEX        

Part I    

Page     

Item 1.  
     
     Business    
      
  1   

Item 1A.  
     
     Risk Factors    
      
  5   

Item 1B.  
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  12   

Item 2.  
     
     Properties    
      
  12   

Item 3.  
     
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  13   

Item 4.  
     
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  14   

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  15   

Part II      

Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    
      
  18   

Item 6.  
     
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  19   

Item 7.  
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  20   

Item 7A.  
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  51   

Item 8.  
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  52   

Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  113   

Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  113   

Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information    
      
  113   

Part III     

Item 10.  
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  115   

Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation    
      
  116   

Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  116   

Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  117   

Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  117   

Part IV     

Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  118   

Signatures   
      
  123   

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
      
  124   

Exhibit (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
      
  124   

Exhibit (21)   List of Company Subsidiaries   
      
  125   

Exhibit (23)   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
      
  131   

Exhibit (31)(i)   CEO Section 302 Certification   
      
  132   

Exhibit (31)(ii)   CFO Section 302 Certification   
      
  133   

Exhibit (32)(i)   CEO Section 906 Certification   
      
  134   

Exhibit (32)(ii)   CFO Section 906 Certification   
      
  135   

Table of Contents  

    FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO RISK AND UNCERTAINTY            
  Certain statements in this report may be  forward-looking  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as  expects,   intends,   plans,   projects,   believes,   estimates,   targets,  and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions about future events that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. As a result, these statements speak to events only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by federal securities laws. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.       

the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally;    

the adequacy of coverage, by allowance for losses, of risks related to our non-U.S. accounts receivable being payable in U.S. dollars;    

the continued operation, viability and growth of Commercial Airplanes revenues and successful execution of our backlog in this segment;    

the effects of customers cancelling, modifying and/or rescheduling contractual orders;    

the timing and effects of decisions to complete or launch a Commercial Airplanes program;    

the effect on our revenues of political and legal processes; changing defense priorities; and associated budget reductions by U.S. and international government customers
affecting Boeing defense programs;    

our relationship with our union-represented workforce and the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;    

the continuation of long-term trends in passenger traffic and revenue yields in the airline industry;    

the impact of volatile fuel prices and the airline industry s response;    

the effect of declines in aircraft valuation;    

the impact on our revenues or operating results of airline bankruptcies;    

the extent to which we are called upon to fund outstanding financing commitments or satisfy other financing requests, and our ability to satisfy those requirements;

the continuation of historical costs for fleet support services;    

the receipt of estimated award and incentive fees on U.S. government contracts;    

the future demand for commercial satellites and projections of future order flow;    

i   

Table of Contents  

the potential for technical or quality issues on development programs, including the Airborne Early Warning and Control program, International KC-767 Tanker, other
fixed-price development programs, or commercial satellite programs, to affect schedule and cost estimates, or cause us to incur a material charge or experience a termination for default;    

the outcome of any litigation and/or government investigation in which we are a party, and other contingencies;    

returns on pension fund assets, impacts of future interest rate changes on pension obligations and rising healthcare costs;    

the amounts and effects of underinsured operations, including satellite launches;    

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition or disposition activity and investment in any joint ventures/strategic alliances, including Sea Launch and United Launch Alliance,
and indemnifications related thereto; and    

the expected cash expenditures and charges associated with the exit of the Connexion by Boeing business.    
          This report includes important information regarding these factors in the
 Business  section under the headings:  Financial and Other Business Information,   Risk Factors  and  Legal Proceedings,  and in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Additional
important information as to these factors is included in this report in the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          
      
   ii   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1. Business       The Boeing Company, together with its subsidiaries (herein referred to as  Boeing , the  Company ,  we ,  us ,  our ), is one of the world s major aerospace firms.      We are organized based on the products and services we offer. We operate in five principal segments:       

Commercial Airplanes;          

The three segments that comprise our Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) business:          

Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA),          

Network and Space Systems (N SS) and          

Global Services and Support (GS S)          

Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC).         Our Other segment classification
principally includes the activities of Engineering, Operations and Technology (EO T) and certain intercompany items. EO T is an advanced research and development organization focused on innovative technologies, improved processes and the
creation of new products.       Commercial Airplanes Segment       The Commercial
Airplanes segment is involved in developing, producing and marketing commercial jet aircraft and providing related support services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide. We are a leading producer of commercial aircraft and offer
a family of commercial jetliners designed to meet a broad spectrum of passenger and cargo requirements of domestic and non-U.S. airlines. This family of commercial jet aircraft currently includes the 737 Next-Generation narrow-body model and the
747, 767, 777 and 787 wide-body models. The Commercial Airplanes segment also offers aviation services support, aircraft modifications, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice to commercial and government customers worldwide.
      Integrated Defense Systems       IDS is principally involved in the research,
development, production, modification and support of the following products and related systems and services: military aircraft, including fighters, transports, tankers, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, and helicopters;
unmanned systems; missiles; space systems; missile defense systems; satellites and satellite launch vehicles; and communications, information and battle management systems. IDS is committed to providing affordable, best-of-industry solutions and
brings value to customers through its ability to solve the most complex problems utilizing expertise in large-scale systems integration, knowledge of legacy platforms, and development of common network-enabled solutions across all customers 
domains. IDS s primary customer is the United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) with approximately 80% of IDS 2008 revenues being derived from this customer. Other significant revenues were derived from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA) and international defense markets, civil markets, and commercial satellite markets.       BMA Segment:       This segment is engaged in the research, development, production, and modification of military aircraft precision engagement and mobility products and services.
Included in this segment are programs such as AH-64 Apache, 737 Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW C), C-17 Globemaster, C-40A Clipper, CH-47 Chinook, EA-18G Growler, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

Strike Eagle, F-22 Raptor, Harpoon, Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM), International KC-767 Tanker, P-8A Poseidon, ScanEagle, Standoff Land Attack Missile  
Expanded Response (SLAM-ER), Small Diameter Bomb, T-45 Training System, and V-22 Osprey.       N SS Segment:       This segment is engaged in the research, development, production, and modification of products and services to assist our customers in transforming their operations
through network integration, intelligence and surveillance systems, communications, architectures, and space exploration. Included in this segment are programs such as Airborne Laser, Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals(FAB-T), Future
Combat Systems (FCS), SBInet, Future Rapid Effects System, Global Positioning System, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), International Space Station, Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS), Satellite Systems, Space Payloads, and Space Shuttle.
      GS S Segment:       This segment is engaged
in the operations, maintenance, training, upgrades, and logistics support functions for military platforms and operations. Included in this segment are program areas such as Integrated Logistics on platforms including C-17, F/A-18, and AH-64;
Maintenance, Modifications and Upgrades on platforms including A-10, AC-130, KC-135, and KC-10; Training Systems and Services on platforms including F-16, C-17, AH-64, and F-15; International Support.       Boeing Capital Corporation Segment       In the commercial aircraft market, BCC facilitates,
arranges, structures and provides selective financing solutions for our Commercial Airplanes segment customers. In the space and defense markets, BCC arranges and structures financing solutions for our IDS segment government customers. BCC s
portfolio consists of equipment under operating leases, finance leases, notes and other receivables, assets held for sale or re-lease and investments.       Financial
and Other Business Information       See the Summary of Business Segment Data and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information, including
revenues, earnings from operations and our backlog of firm contractual orders, for each of the major business segments.       Intellectual Property       We own numerous patents and have licenses for the use of patents owned by others, which relate to our products and their manufacture. However, we do not believe that our business
would be materially affected by the expiration of any patents or termination of any patent license agreements. We have no trademarks, franchises or concessions that are considered to be of material importance to the conduct of our business.
      Non-U.S. Sales       See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information regarding non-U.S. sales.       Research and Development       Research
and development expenditures involve experimentation, design, development and related test activities for defense systems, new and derivative jet aircraft including both commercial and  
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

military, advance space and other company-sponsored product development. These expenditures are expensed as incurred including amounts allocable as reimbursable
overhead costs on U.S. government contracts.      Our total research and development expense amounted to $3.8 billion, $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. This is net of research and development cost sharing payments from suppliers of $50 million, $130 million and $160 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These cost sharing payments are related to our 787 program.
     Research and development costs also include bid and proposal efforts related to government products and services, as well as costs incurred in excess of amounts
estimated to be recoverable under cost-sharing research and development agreements. Bid and proposal costs were $330 million, $306 million and $227 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Research and development highlights for each of the major business segments are discussed in more detail in Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition on pages 20
  41.       Employees       Total workforce level at December 31, 2008 was
162,200.      As of December 31, 2008, our principal collective bargaining agreements were with the following unions:       

Union  
      
  Percent of our Employees Represented  
      
  Status of the Agreements with the Union   
 
  The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)  
      
  19%  
      
  We have two major agreements; one expiring in June of 2010 and one in September of 2012.   

The Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA)  
      
  13%  
      
  We have two major agreements expiring in October of 2012.   

The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)  
      
  2%  
      
  We have one major agreement expiring in October of 2009.   
     Competition      The commercial jet
aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. We face aggressive international competitors, including Airbus, who are intent on increasing their market share. We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost
reduction efforts. We continue to leverage our extensive customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world to provide a higher level of
customer satisfaction and productivity.      IDS faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman
Corporation, Raytheon Company and General Dynamics Corporation. Non-U.S. companies such as BAE Systems and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS) continue to pursue a strategic presence in the U.S. market by strengthening their North
American operations and partnering with U.S. defense companies. IDS expects the trend of strong competition to continue into 2009 with many international firms pursuing announced intentions of increasing their U.S. presence.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Matters        U.S. Government
Contracts.  Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of our markets. We deal with numerous U.S. government agencies and entities, including but not limited to all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, and the Department of Homeland
Security. Similar government authorities exist in our international markets.      The U.S. government, and other governments, may terminate any of our government
contracts at their convenience as well as for default based on our failure to meet specified performance measurements. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for
work completed and allowable termination or cancellation costs. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, generally the U.S. government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and can require us to pay the
difference between the original contract price and the cost to re-procure the contract items, net of the work accepted from the original contract. The U.S. government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default.       Commercial Aircraft.  In the United States, our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with Federal Aviation Administration regulations governing production and
quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. Internationally, similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational approvals. These requirements are generally
administered by the national aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the European Joint Aviation Authorities.       Environmental.  Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of
certain materials, substances and wastes. We continually assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters to ensure our operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.   
  Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. These costs often are allowable
costs under our contracts with the U.S. government. It is reasonably possible that continued environmental compliance could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if more stringent clean-up standards
are imposed, additional contamination is discovered and/or clean-up costs are higher than estimated.      A Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) has joint and several
liability under existing U.S. environmental laws. Where we have been designated a PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency, we are potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of
remediating contamination at our facilities or former facilities or at third-party sites. If we were required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the statutory framework would allow us to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. For
additional information relating to environmental contingencies, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       International.  Our international sales
are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. governmental regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investment, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. International sales are also
subject to varying currency, political and economic risks.       Raw Materials       We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials, parts and subassemblies from our suppliers and subcontractors. The most important raw materials required for our aerospace products  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

are aluminum (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions), titanium (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions) and composites (including carbon and boron). Although
alternative sources generally exist for these raw materials, qualification of the sources could take a year or more. Many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and
non-U.S. companies.       Suppliers       We are dependent upon the ability of large
numbers of suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance specifications, quality standards and delivery schedules at anticipated costs. While we maintain an extensive qualification and performance surveillance system to control risk associated
with such reliance on third parties, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to meet commitments could adversely affect production schedules and program/contract profitability, thereby jeopardizing our ability to fulfill commitments to our customers.
We are also dependent on the availability of energy sources, such as electricity, at affordable prices.       Seasonality       No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal.       Other Information  
     Boeing was originally incorporated in the State of Washington in 1916 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1934. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 N.
Riverside, Chicago, Illinois 60606 and our telephone number is (312) 544-2000.      General information about us can be found at www.boeing.com. The information
contained on or connected to our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them
to, the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information
regarding SEC registrants, including Boeing.         Item 1A. Risk Factors       An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future trends may differ materially from our past performance due to a variety of factors, including, without
limitation, the following:        We depend heavily upon commercial customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market, which are subject to unique risks.   
      We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of major commercial airlines, some of which have encountered financial
difficulties.  We depend on a limited number of customers, including the major commercial airlines. We can make no assurance that any customer will purchase additional products or services from us after our contract with the customer ends.
Financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of any of the major commercial airlines could significantly reduce our revenues and our opportunity to generate a profit. Several commercial airlines have filed for or recently emerged from bankruptcy.
        
   5   

Table of Contents  

    Our ability to deliver aircraft on time depends on a variety of factors, which are subject to unique risks.
 Our ability to deliver jet aircraft on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials (such as aluminum, titanium, and composites), internal and supplier produced
parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, performance of suppliers and subcontractors, and regulatory certification. The failure of any or all of these factors could result in significant out-of-sequence work and
disrupted process flows that result in significant inefficiencies and that adversely affect production schedules and program/contract profitability, the latter through increased costs as well as possible customer and/or supplier claims or
assertions. In addition, the introduction of new commercial aircraft programs and major derivatives involves increased risks associated with meeting development, production and certification schedules.       Market conditions have a significant impact on our ability to sell aircraft into the future.  The worldwide market for commercial jet aircraft is
predominantly driven by long-term trends in airline passenger traffic. The principal factors underlying long-term traffic growth are sustained economic growth and political stability, both in developed and emerging countries. Demand for our
commercial aircraft is further influenced by airline industry profitability, world trade policies, government-to-government relations, terrorism, disease outbreaks, environmental constraints imposed upon aircraft operations, technological changes,
price and other competitive factors.       Our commercial aircraft customers may request to cancel, modify or reschedule orders.  We generally make
sales under purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the airline industry could result in customer requests for rescheduling or cancellation of
contractual orders. Some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance and failure to deliver airplanes in accordance with such provisions could result in cancellations and/or penalties, as could litigation in the
wake of production delays. If there were such cancellations, modification, rescheduling or penalties, it could significantly reduce our backlog, revenues, profitability and cash flows.       Our commercial aircraft production rates could change.  As a result of worldwide demand for new aircraft, our aircraft orders have exceeded deliveries during
2008, 2007 and 2006. There may be production rate changes in order to meet the delivery schedules for existing and new airplane programs. This may lead to adding extra production lines, implementing infrastructure changes, seeking additional
qualified and skilled employees, and obtaining other resources. Failure to successfully implement any production rate changes could lead to extended delivery commitments, and depending on the length of delay in meeting delivery commitments,
additional costs and customers rescheduling their deliveries or terminating their aircraft on contract with us. Customer requests to reschedule or cancel commercial airplane orders could cause us to reduce future production rates which could cause
us to incur disruption and other costs and result in infrastructure costs being allocated to a smaller quantity of airplanes, all of which could reduce our profitability.        We depend heavily on U.S. government contracts, which are subject to unique risks.        In 2008, 46% of our revenues were derived from U.S.
government contracts. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control.       The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations . Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded
annually. Changes in military strategy and priorities may affect our future procurement opportunities and existing programs. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent
performance periods are not made. In addition, we anticipate that the U.S. DoD budget will be under pressure as  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

the new administration is faced with competing national priorities. The termination of funding for existing or new U.S. government programs could result in a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.       The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts.  The
U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts with us, without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of
our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.       Our contract costs are
subject to audits by U.S. government agencies . U.S. government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any
costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not
know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and
criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government.       Our business is subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations.  We are sometimes subject to certain U.S. government inquiries and
investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.       Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements.  These requirements, although customary in U.S.
government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and
requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts.
       We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns.        Many of our contracts in IDS and most of our contracts in Commercial Airplanes are contracted on a fixed-price basis. Approximately 50% of IDS revenues are generated from
fixed-price contracts. Commercial jet aircraft are normally sold on a firm fixed-price basis with an indexed price escalation clause. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost
overruns. If the initial estimates we use to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and
performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition. These programs have risk for reach-forward
losses if our estimated costs exceed our estimated price.      Fixed-price development work inherently has more uncertainty than production contracts and, therefore,
more variability in estimates of the cost to complete the work. Many of these development programs have very complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our
estimated cost to perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of which could result in a material charge. Successful performance depends on our ability to meet production specifications and delivery rates. If we are unable to perform and
deliver to contract requirements, our contract price could be reduced through the incorporation of  
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

liquidated damages, termination of the contract for default, or other financially significant exposure. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to
perform the work, the price we will eventually be paid and, in the case of commercial programs, the number of units to include in the initial accounting quantity. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements
are appropriate, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. For example, in 2006 and in second quarter 2008, we recorded charges of $770 million and $248 million, respectively, on our AEW C program
due to schedule delays and higher cost estimates. In 2008, we recorded a charge of $685 million for a reach-forward loss on our 747 program as a result of schedule delays and higher cost estimates associated with the development of the 747-8
freighter and passenger derivative aircraft. We may continue to experience technical quality issues requiring further delays in schedule or revisions to our cost estimates. Examples of significant IDS fixed-price development contracts include
International KC-767 Tankers, commercial and military satellites, Vigilare and High Frequency Modernisation. Examples of significant Commercial Airplanes development programs include the 787, 747-8 and 777 freighter.        We enter into cost-type contracts which also carry risks.        Approximately 50% of
IDS revenues are generated from cost-type contracting arrangements. Some of these are development programs which have complex design and technical challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to
uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. Programs whose contracts
are primarily cost-type include GMD, FCS, P-8A Poseidon, Proprietary programs, Airborne Laser, JTRS, FAB-T, and the EA-18G Growler.        We enter into
contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments that subject us to risks.        Contracts in the commercial satellite industry and certain government satellite
contracts include in-orbit incentive payments. These in-orbit payments may be paid over time after final satellite acceptance or paid in full prior to final satellite acceptance. In both cases, the in-orbit incentive payment is at risk if the
satellite does not perform to specifications for up to 15 years after acceptance. The net present value of in-orbit incentive fees we ultimately expect to realize is recognized as revenue in the construction period. If the satellite fails
to meet contractual performance criteria, customers will not be obligated to continue making in-orbit payments and/or we may be required to provide refunds to the customer and incur significant charges.        We use estimates in accounting for many contracts and programs. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.        Contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the
size and nature of many of our contracts and programs, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract or program
because costs also include expected increases in wages, material prices and allocated fixed costs. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is
sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Suppliers  assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. Estimates of award fees are also used in sales and profit rates based on actual and
anticipated awards.      Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program tooling costs and routine warranty costs are accumulated
and charged as cost of sales by program instead of by  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term
production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts limited by the ability to make reasonable dependable estimates. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the
number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling, and routine warranty
costs for the total program. Several factors determine accounting quantity, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. Such estimates are reconsidered throughout the life of our programs. Changes in
underlying assumptions, supplier performance, circumstances or estimates concerning the selection of the accounting quantity or changes in market conditions, along with a failure to realize predicted costs, may adversely affect future financial
performance.      Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts
could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. For additional information
on our accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under  Management s Discussion and Analysis   Critical Accounting Policies   Contract Accounting/Program Accounting  on pages 47-48 and Note 1
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 57-58 of this Form 10-K.        Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension
assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.        Our earnings may be positively or negatively
impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans
using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate
pension or other postretirement income or expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and expected future medical inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement
of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to Other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other
postretirement plan accounting policies, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis   Critical Accounting Policies   Postretirement Plans  on pages 50-51 of this Form 10-K. Although GAAP expense and pension or other
postretirement contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions
include both mandatory amounts required under federal law Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and discretionary contributions to improve the plans  funded status.        Some of our and our suppliers  workforce are represented by labor unions, which may lead to work stoppages.        Approximately
60,000 of our total workforce are unionized, which represented approximately 37% of our employees on December 31, 2008. We experienced a work stoppage in 2008 when a labor strike halted commercial aircraft and certain BMA program production and
we may experience additional work stoppages in the future, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our relationships, currently with 14 different U.S. labor organizations and 7 different non-U.S. labor organizations,
will be or whether we will be able to meet the unions  requirements without impacting our financial condition. The unions may also limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Union  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

actions at suppliers can also affect us. Work stoppages and instability in our union relationships could negatively impact the timely production and/or development of
our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues that would adversely affect our operations.        Competition within our
markets may reduce our procurement of future contracts and sales.       The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Our competitors may have more
extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products or provide services similar to products
that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our
revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that the
competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenues and market share.        We derive a significant portion of our revenues from non-U.S. sales and
are subject to the risks of doing business in other countries.        In 2008, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for approximately 40% of our revenues. We
expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:       

changes in regulatory requirements;          

domestic and international government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements;

fluctuations in international currency exchange rates;          

delays in placing orders;          

the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants;          

the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases;          

uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees;          

imposition of taxes, export controls, or tariffs, embargoes, and other trade restrictions;          

the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries;          

compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad and          

economic and geopolitical developments and conditions.         While the impact
of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future.        The outcome of litigation in
which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.        We are defendants in a number of litigation matters. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we
believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our financial
position and results of operations.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

     A substantial deterioration in the financial condition of the commercial airline industry as it relates to Boeing Capital
Corporation may have an adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.        BCC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, has substantially all of its
portfolio concentrated among commercial airline customers. If terrorist attacks, a serious health epidemic, significant regulatory actions in response to environmental concerns, increases in fuel related costs or other exogenous events were to
occur, a material adverse effect on the airline industry, increased requests for financing, significant defaults by airline customers, repossessions of aircraft or airline bankruptcies and restructurings could result. These events could have a
negative effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.        We may be unable to obtain debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments at
competitive rates, on commercially reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts.        We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and
contractual commitments. If we were called upon to fund all outstanding financing commitments, our market liquidity may not be sufficient. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing
public and private markets for debt. These factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance or outlook or credit ratings. The occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely
affect our ability to fund our operations and contractual or financing commitments.        We may not realize the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions,
joint ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures.        As part of our business strategy, we may merge with or acquire businesses, form joint ventures/strategic
alliances and divest operations. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies and
the management of the transacted operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment
of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. Consolidations of joint ventures could also impact our results of operations or financial position. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate
procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. Divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial
arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results.        Our insurance coverage may be
inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.        We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. While we maintain
insurance for certain risks and, in some circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government, insurance cannot be obtained to protect against all risks and liabilities. It is therefore possible that the amount of our insurance
coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs.        Our forward-looking statements, projections and business
assumptions may prove to be inaccurate, resulting in an adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.        The statements in this
 Risk Factors  section describe material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this report and in our Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking
statements that set forth anticipated results based on management s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements
give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.      Statements in the future tense, and all
statements accompanied by terms such as  believe,   project,   expect,   estimate,   assume,   intend,   anticipate,   target,   plan,  and variations thereof
and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities law. While these forward-looking statements reflect our best estimates when made, the preceding risk factors could cause actual results to differ
materially from estimates or projections.      We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities
laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.      You should consider the limitations on,
and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. As noted above, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. We
do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, we may make
forward-looking statements that involve the risk factors and other matters described in this document as well as other risk factors subsequently identified.        
 Item 
1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not Applicable.         Item 2.
 Properties       We occupied approximately 87 million square feet of floor space on December 31, 2008 for manufacturing, warehousing, engineering,
administration and other productive uses, of which approximately 96% was located in the United States.      The following table provides a summary of the floor space by
business:       

*  
     
  Excludes rent-free space furnished by U.S. government landlord of 1,039 square feet.     

**  
     
  Other includes BCC; EO  Corporate Headquarters; and Boeing Shared Services Group.        At
December 31, 2008, our segments occupied facilities at the following major locations that occupied in excess of 76 million square feet of floor space:       

Commercial Airplanes   Greater Seattle, WA            
   12   

Table of Contents  

Integrated Defense Systems   Greater Los Angeles, CA; Greater Seattle, WA; Greater St. Louis, MO; Philadelphia, PA; San Antonio, TX; Huntsville, AL; Mesa, AZ; Wichita,
KS; Houston, TX; and Greater Washington, DC          

Other   Chicago, IL and Greater Seattle, WA         Most runways and
taxiways that we use are located on airport properties owned by others and are used jointly with others. Our rights to use such facilities are provided for under long-term leases with municipal, county or other government authorities. In addition,
the U.S. government furnishes us certain office space, installations and equipment at U.S. government bases for use in connection with various contract activities.      We believe that our principal properties are adequate for our present needs and, as supplemented by planned improvements and construction, expect them to remain adequate for the foreseeable future.         Item 3. Legal Proceedings       Currently, we are involved in a
number of legal proceedings. For a discussion of contingencies related to legal proceedings, see Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is hereby incorporated by reference.       BSSI/Thuraya Litigation       On September 10, 2004, a group of insurance underwriters
for Thuraya Satellite Telecommunications (Thuraya) requested arbitration before the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) on a subrogated claim against BSSI. The Request for Arbitration alleged that BSSI breached its contract with Thuraya for the
sale of a model 702 satellite that experienced power loss anomalies. The claimants sought approximately $219 million (plus claims of interest, costs and fees) consisting of insurance payments made to Thuraya. Thuraya reserved its rights to seek
uninsured losses that could have increased the total amount disputed to $365 million. On January 7, 2009, the ICC issued a final decision rejecting insurers  claims and awarding defense costs to BSSI. We believe this matter is now closed
and do not expect any further actions to be taken on this matter.      We notified our responsible insurers of the arbitration request. On May 26, 2006, a group of
these insurers filed a declaratory judgment action in the Circuit Court of Cook County asserting certain defenses to coverage and requesting a declaration of their obligations under our insurance and reinsurance policies relating to the Thuraya ICC
arbitration. We believe the insurers  position lacks merit. On May 25, 2007, the court issued an order staying further proceedings in the coverage action pending completion of the arbitration. The Illinois Supreme Court affirmed the stay
order. The stay of the declaratory judgment action coupled with the ICC s final ruling that Boeing is not liable to the underlying claimants have substantially narrowed the scope of any remaining disputes in the coverage action.       BSSI/Superbird-6 Litigation       On December 1, 2006, BSSI was served with an arbitration
demand in subrogation brought by insurers for Space Communications Corporation alleging breach of warranty, breach of contract and gross negligence relating to the Superbird-6 communications satellite, which suffered a low perigee event shortly
after launch in April 2004. The low orbit allegedly damaged the satellite, and a subsequent decision to de-orbit the satellite was made less than 12 months after launch. The model 601 satellite was manufactured by BSSI and delivered for launch by
International Launch Services on an Atlas launch vehicle. The insurers sought to recover in excess of $240 million from BSSI. On February 4, 2009, the arbitration panel issued a final decision rejecting the insurers  claim for $240 million but
awarding the insurers a portion of the warranty payback. The award will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Santa Susana Field Laboratory       We possess
a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region (Regional Board), which limits the permissible level of certain constituents in surface water
discharged from various outfalls at our Santa Susana Field Laboratory site in Simi Valley, California. Since June 2004, the Regional Board has amended this permit to impose increasingly stringent limits. In late 2006, the California Water Resources
Control Board (State Board) partially granted and partially denied the Company s appeal of these amendments, and remanded the permit to the Regional Board to correct certain errors. On November 1, 2007, the Regional Board responded to the
remand from the State Board by amending the permit, and issuing a cease and desist order incorporating some (but not all) relief that we had requested. On December 3, 2007, we filed an administrative appeal of certain portions of the Regional
Board s November 1st action, but asked that the State Board hold the appeal in abeyance as we seek to work cooperatively with the Regional Board to address continuing permit compliance issues. In the meantime, on January 17, 2007, we
filed an action in Los Angeles County Superior Court challenging the State Board s rulings that are adverse to the Company, including the determination to uphold the more stringent limits in the permit. In light of ongoing discussions between
the Company and the Regional Board seeking to reach a consensual resolution of the issues, on December 22, 2008, the Company and the State Board filed a joint stipulation and tolling agreement with the Superior Court requesting that this
judicial action be dismissed without prejudice to re-filing in the future if the Company so chooses.      On June 11, 2008, the Regional Board issued a Notice of
Violation informing us that the Board has identified 24 discharge violations from our self-monitoring reports covering the period October 1, 2006, through March 31, 2008. Each violation, if established, could give rise to
assessment of an administrative penalty of up to $10,000 plus possible additional assessments based upon the volume of water discharged. We are working with the Board staff to review and address the Notice. On December 8, 2008 the Board issued
an Order requesting and authorizing the Company to prepare work plans and, upon approval, to perform interim contaminant source removal actions in watersheds feeding into two outfalls currently included in our permit. These actions will
improve water quality and compliance with water quality standards at these outfalls.      In November 2005, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney s office in Los Angeles seeking documents from 2001 onward pertaining to our NPDES permit compliance status under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA). We produced the requested documents and on August 5, 2008, the U.S.
Attorney s office informed us that it was closing its investigation and would take no further action on this matter.         Item 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31,
2008.        
   14   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant       Our executive officers as of February 1, 2009, are as follows:       

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    
 
    James F. Albaugh   
      
  58  
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, IDS since July 2002. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Boeing, President, Space and Communications Group from September 1998
(named CEO of Space and Communications Group in March 2001). Prior to that, President, Boeing Space Transportation from April 1998 and President of Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power from March 1997. Current director of TRW Automotive Holdings, Inc.

James A. Bell   
      
  60  
      
  Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2008. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2004. Prior thereto,
Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller from October 2000 to January 2004. Prior thereto, Vice President of Contracts and Pricing for Boeing Space Communications from January 1997 to October 2000. Current director of The Dow
Chemical Company.   

Scott E. Carson   
      
  62  
      
  Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes since September 2006. Previously, Vice President of Sales at Commercial Airplanes; President of
Connexion by Boeing; Chief Financial Officer of Commercial Airplanes; and Executive Vice President of Business Resources for the former Boeing Information, Space and Defense Systems.   

Michael J. Cave   
      
  48  
      
  Senior Vice President of Business Development and Strategy since November 2007. Prior thereto, he was Vice President of Business Strategy   Marketing for Boeing Commercial Airplanes; Vice
President/General Manager of Airplane Programs for Commercial Airplanes, and Senior Vice President for Commercial Aviation Services. Prior thereto, Mr. Cave served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Commercial Airplanes from
November 2000 through January 2003. Prior thereto, he was Vice President   Finance for Commercial Aviation Services, Vice President   Controller for Boeing Commercial Airplanes Group, and Vice President   Finance for the twin-aisle
programs. Prior to joining Commercial Airplanes, he served as Vice President   Finance for Boeing Information, Space   Defense Systems.   

Wanda K. Denson-Low   
      
  52  
      
  Senior Vice President, Office of Internal Governance since May 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President and Assistant General Counsel of IDS, August 2003 to May 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President of Human
Resources for IDS, March 2002 to August 2003, and prior thereto Chief Counsel, S C Legal, August 2001 to March 2002, and Vice President, General Counsel, Hughes Space and Communications, January 1998 to August 2001. Vice President, Assistant
General Counsel, Hughes Electronics, 1992 to January 1998. Wanda Denson-Low joined the Company in 1984.   
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    

Thomas J. Downey   
      
  44  
      
  Senior Vice President, Communications since January 1, 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President, Corporate Communications, April to December 2006 and Vice President, Commercial Airplanes Communications, May
2002 to April 2006. Before that, Mr. Downey was Corporate Vice President, Internal and Executive Communications, 1999 to April 2002; General Manager of Communications and Community Relations for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems unit; and
director of Communications for Douglas Aircraft Company. Mr. Downey joined the Company in 1986.   

Shephard W. Hill   
      
  56  
      
  Senior Vice President of Boeing and President, Boeing International since November 2007. Formerly, Senior Vice President, Business Development and Strategy, Vice President, Business Development, at IDS
and prior to that, Vice President, Boeing Space and Communications Government Relations. Prior thereto, he was Vice President, Space Systems, Integrated Space and Defense Systems business unit. Mr. Hill joined Boeing when the Company acquired
Rockwell s Aerospace and Defense business in 1996. At that time, Mr. Hill was Rockwell s Vice President, Aerospace Government Affairs and Marketing.   

Timothy J. Keating   
      
  47  
      
  Senior Vice President, Public Policy since May 2008. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Global Government Relations, Honeywell International since 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Keating was Chairman of
the Board and Managing Partner, Timmons and Company, from 1998 until 2002. Prior positions include Vice President for Federal Affairs for a major Washington, D.C. trade association, Director for Congressional Affairs for the Presidential Inaugural
Committee for President Clinton, Special Assistant to President Clinton, and Staff Director for Legislative Affairs for the Clinton Administration.   

J. Michael Luttig   
      
  54  
      
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel since May 2006. Prior thereto, Mr. Luttig served on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from October 1991 to May 2006; as Assistant
Attorney General of the United States from October 1990 to October 1991; and Counselor to the Attorney General at the Department of Justice from August 1990 to October 1991. Prior thereto, he was Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the
Department of Justice from March 1989 to October 1990. Mr. Luttig was associated with Davis Polk and Wardwell from September 1985 to March 1989. Prior to that, he was special assistant to the Chief Justice of the United States from September 1984 to
September 1985; law clerk to the Honorable Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States from July 1983 until August 1984 and law clerk to then-Judge Antonin Scalia of the United States Court of Appeals from August 1982 to July 1983. Mr.
Luttig served as special assistant to The White House Counsel and then as assistant counsel from March 1981 to August 1982, and worked at the Supreme Court of the United States in the Office of Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice from
September 1976 to September 1978.   
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    

W. James McNerney, Jr.   
      
  59  
      
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Boeing Company. Mr. McNerney has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Boeing Company since July 1, 2005. Previously, he served
four and a half years as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company (diversified technology). Beginning in 1982, he served in management positions at General Electric Company, his most recent being President and Chief Executive Officer of GE
Aircraft Engines from 1997 until 2000. Mr. McNerney is on the board of the following public company in addition to The Boeing Company: The Procter   Gamble Company. He is also a member of various business and educational
organizations.   

Richard D. Stephens   
      
  56  
      
  Senior Vice President Human Resources and Administration since September 2005. He previously served as Senior Vice President of Internal Services and prior thereto, he was President of Shared Services
Group. Prior thereto, he was Vice President and General Manager, Integrated Defense Systems Homeland Security and Services, from July 2002 to December 2003. Mr. Stephens has previously led a number of Boeing businesses, including Space and
Communications Services, Reusable Space Systems, Naval Systems and Tactical Systems.   

John J. Tracy   
      
  54  
      
  Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of Engineering, Operations and Technology since October 1, 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President of Engineering
and Mission Assurance for IDS, February 2004 to September 2006; Vice President of Structural Technologies, Prototyping, and Quality for Phantom Works, September 2001 to January 2004; and General Manager of Engineering for Military Aircraft and
Missiles September 2000 to August 2001. Dr. Tracy joined the Company in 1981.   
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The principal market for our common stock is the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol BA. Our common stock is also listed on the Amsterdam, Brussels, London and Swiss Exchanges as well as various regional stock exchanges in
the United States. The number of holders of common stock as of February 6, 2009, was approximately 228,930. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the table captioned  Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited ) on page 111.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The
following table provides information about purchases we made during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 of equity securities that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:       (Dollars in millions, except per share data)        

(1)      
     
    We repurchased an aggregate of 7,566,972 shares of our common stock in the open market pursuant to our repurchase program. Outside
of the repurchase program, we purchased an aggregate of 23,853 shares transferred to us from employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock during the period and 47,231 shares as part
of the ShareValue Trust distribution.      

(2)      
     
    On October 29, 2007, the Board approved the repurchase of up to $7 billion of common stock (the Program). Unless terminated
earlier by a Board resolution, the Program will expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase.            
   18   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6. Selected Financial Data        Five-Year Summary (Unaudited)        
    Cash dividends have been paid on common stock every year since 1942.       

(a)    
     
    In 2006, we realigned IDS into three capabilities-driven businesses: Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems (now BMA),
N SS, and Support Systems (now GS S). As part of the realignment, certain advanced systems and research and development activities previously included in the Other segment transferred to the new IDS segments. Effective January 1, 2008
and 2007, certain programs were realigned between IDS segments. Prior years have been recast for segment realignments.      

(b)    
     
      During 2004, BCC sold substantially all of the assets related to its Commercial Financial Services business. Thus, the
Commercial Financial Services business is reflected as discontinued operations.      

(c)    
     
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans  was adopted in 2006 and reduced shareholders  equity by $8.2 billion. Retrospective application is not permitted.      

(d)    
     
    Computation represents actual shares outstanding as of December 31, and excludes treasury shares and the outstanding shares
held by the ShareValue Trust.            
   19   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
       Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition        Overview
      We are a global market leader in design, development, manufacture, sale and support of commercial jetliners, military aircraft, satellites, missile defense,
human space flight and launch systems and services. We are one of the two major manufacturers of 100+ seat airplanes for the worldwide commercial airline industry and the second-largest defense contractor in the U.S. While our principal operations
are in the U.S., we rely extensively on a network of partners, key suppliers and subcontractors located around the world.      Our business strategy is centered on
successful execution in healthy core businesses   Commercial Airplanes and Integrated Defense Systems (IDS)   supplemented and supported by Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC). Taken together, these core businesses have historically generated
substantial earnings and cash flow that permit us to invest in new products and services that open new frontiers in aerospace. We focus on producing the airplanes the market demands and we price our products to provide a fair return for our
shareholders while continuing to find new ways to improve efficiency and quality. IDS integrates its resources in defense, intelligence, communications and space to deliver capability-driven solutions to its customers at reduced costs. Our strategy
is to leverage our core businesses to capture key next-generation programs while expanding our presence in adjacent and international markets, underscored by an intense focus on growth and productivity. Our strategy also benefits as commercial and
defense markets often offset each others  cyclicality. BCC delivers value through supporting our business units and managing overall financing exposure.      Consolidated Results of Operations        Revenues        (Dollars in
millions)        
    The decrease in 2008 revenues of $5,478 million is primarily due to lower revenues at Commercial Airplanes. Commercial
Airplanes revenues decreased by $5,123 million, primarily as a result of decreases in new airplane deliveries reflecting the effects of the labor strike, partially offset by higher intercompany revenues and higher pre-strike deliveries and model
mix. We delivered 104 fewer than expected airplanes due to the IAM strike during 2008. This reduced revenue by approximately $6.4 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. IDS revenues were unchanged as revenue growth in Global
Services and Support (GS S) was offset by decreases in Boeing Military Airplanes (BMA) and Network and Space Systems (N SS). BCC revenues decreased by $112 million primarily due to lower interest income on financing receivables and notes and
a decrease in the customer financing portfolio. Other segment revenues increased by $259 million primarily due to the sale of four C-17 aircraft during 2008, that were held under an operating lease. Unallocated items and eliminations changed by $497
million, primarily due to the intercompany elimination of P-8A Poseidon program (P-8A) revenues recognized by Commercial Airplanes.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Revenues in 2007 grew by $4,857 million, primarily due to the growth at Commercial Airplanes. Commercial Airplanes revenues
increased by $4,921 million, primarily due to higher new airplane deliveries and increased commercial aviation support activities. IDS revenues decreased by $359 million, primarily due to lower revenues in N SS resulting from the formation of
the United Launch Alliance (ULA) joint venture in 2006 and lower revenues in BMA, offset by growth in GS S. BCC revenues decreased by $210 million primarily due to a decrease in the customer financing portfolio. Unallocated items and
eliminations changed by $524 million primarily due to fewer Commercial Airplanes intercompany deliveries when compared with 2006.       Earnings from Operations  
     The following table summarizes our earnings from operations:       (Dollars in
millions)        
    Operating earnings in 2008 decreased by $1,880 million compared with 2007. Commercial Airplanes earnings decreased by $2,398
million compared with the same period in 2007, primarily due to fewer new airplane deliveries resulting from the strike, increased program infrastructure costs related to the strike and revised schedules on 787 and 747-8, and a charge taken on the
747-8 program. Commercial Airplanes  research and development expense decreased by $124 million to $2,838 million compared with the same period in 2007, primarily due to lower spending on 787 partially offset by higher spending on 747-8 and
lower supplier development cost sharing payments. IDS earnings decreased by $208 million compared with 2007 primarily due to lower earnings in the BMA segment resulting from a $248 million charge taken on the Airborne Early Warning and Control
(AEW C). BCC operating earnings decreased $72 million reflecting lower revenues and a provision for losses partially offset by lower interest expense. Unallocated items and eliminations in 2008 improved by $774 million compared with 2007, which
is further explained in the table below.      Operating earnings in 2007 improved by $2,816 million compared with 2006. The increase is partly due to the $571
million global settlement with U.S. Department of Justice (U.S. DoJ) that occurred in the second quarter of 2006. Commercial Airplanes earnings increased by $851 million compared with the same period in 2006, primarily due to higher new airplane
deliveries, commercial aviation support activities and improved cost performance offset by increased research and development expense. Commercial Airplanes  research and development expense increased by $572 million to $2,962 million compared
with the same period 2006, primarily due to spending on the 787 and 747-8 programs. IDS earnings increased by $409 million compared with 2006. The increase is primarily due to 2006 charges of $770 million in the BMA segment related to AEW C,
partially offset by lower 2007 earnings on several programs in the BMA and N SS segments. BCC operating earnings decreased $57 million reflecting lower revenues partially offset by a recovery of losses and lower expenses. Other segment earnings
improved by $482 million primarily due to the absence of losses related to Connexion by Boeing, which included a charge of $320 million to exit this business in 2006. Unallocated items and eliminations in 2007 contributed $560 million to the 2007
earnings improvement, which is further explained in the table below.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   The most significant items included in Unallocated items and eliminations are shown in the following table:       (Dollars in millions)        
    We recorded net periodic benefit cost related to pensions and other postretirement benefits of $1,132 million, $1,773
million and $1,663 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Not all net periodic benefit cost is recognized in earnings in the period incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs and a portion remains in inventory at the end
of the reporting period. Accordingly, earnings from operations included $1,203 million, $1,730 million and $1,227 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A portion of pension and other postretirement expense is recorded in the business
segments and the remainder is included in unallocated pension and other postretirement expense.     Unallocated pension and other postretirement expense represents the
difference between costs recognized under Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) in the consolidated financial statements and federal cost accounting standards required to be utilized by our business segments
for U.S. government contracting purposes.      Pension and other postretirement expense decreased during 2008 when compared with 2007 primarily due to a decrease in
overall pension costs compared to the same period in the prior year. Pension and other postretirement expense increased during 2007 when compared with 2006 primarily due to increased overall pension costs recognized in inventory as of
December 31, 2006, which were subsequently expensed in cost of sales in 2007.      The reduction in Share-based plans expense is primarily due to the expiration of
certain Performance Shares during 2008 and higher expense acceleration during 2007, resulting from six payouts compared with zero payouts in 2008. The reduction in Share-based plans expense during 2007 is primarily due to lower Performance Shares
outstanding in 2007 and higher expense acceleration during 2006, resulting from 12 payouts compared with six payouts in 2007. The year over year changes in deferred compensation expense are primarily driven by changes in our stock price and broad
stock market conditions.      Other unallocated items and expense includes a charge related to satellite litigation of $100 million, offset by lower performance-based
compensation in 2008. Other unallocated items and expense in 2007 decreased as a result of reduced intercompany profit elimination as a result of fewer intercompany deliveries than the previous year.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Other Earnings Items        (Dollars in
millions)        
    Other income, which primarily consists of interest income, was lower in 2008 compared with 2007 as a result of lower
interest rates and lower investment balances. Other income was higher in 2007 compared with 2006 as a result of increases in average principal balances and higher average rates of return on cash and investments. Interest and debt expense remained
flat in 2008 but decreased in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to debt repayments.      The effective income tax rates were 33.6% and 33.7% for 2008 and 2007. The
effective income tax rate of 33.7% for 2007 differed from the 2006 effective income tax rate of 30.9% primarily due to Foreign Sales Corporation and Extraterritorial Income exclusion tax benefits that existed in 2006, but did not recur in 2007. This
was partially offset by the non-deduction in 2006 of the global settlement with the U.S. DoJ and other income tax provision adjustments. For additional discussion related to Income Taxes see Note 4.      Backlog      Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced
orders for which definitive contracts have not been executed, and unobligated U.S. and non-U.S. government contract funding. Contractual backlog increased by $26,896 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of increases at Commercial
Airplanes of $23,399 million, which were due to new orders in excess of deliveries for our 737NG, 767, 777 and 787 programs. IDS contractual backlog increased by $3,497 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to international orders for F-15
and C-17 aircraft.      Unobligated backlog includes U.S. and non-U.S. government definitive contracts for which funding has not been authorized. The decrease in total
Unobligated backlog during 2008 is primarily due to decreases at IDS of $2,174 million compared with 2007 primarily due to funding of existing multi-year contracts including the F/A-18, Future Combat Systems (FCS), and F-22 programs. These decreases
were partially offset by multi-year procurement contracts awarded on the V-22 and Chinook programs. The decrease in total Unobligated backlog during 2007 is primarily due to decreases at IDS of $3,492 million compared with 2006 primarily due to
funding of existing multi-year contracts on FCS, Proprietary, C-17, P-8A and F/A-18, partially offset by increases in the F-22 program and several GS S programs.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition        Commercial Airplanes        Business Environment and Trends       Airline Industry Environment  For the world s airlines, 2008 was a challenging year characterized by volatility of several key operational factors including oil prices, economic growth, exchange rates and financing terms. In the
first half of the year, airlines focused on adapting to spiking oil prices which peaked close to $150/barrel in July. In the second half of 2008, the focus turned to the implications of the global credit crisis and recession as fuel prices fell
below $40/barrel for the first time since 2004. Air traffic growth declined toward the end of the year as higher fares to cover higher fuel costs earlier in the year and the economic slowdown reduced demand for air travel.      The impact to airline operations and profitability was dramatic. Globally, over 25 airlines entered bankruptcy, and airlines curtailed capacity growth by cutting unprofitable
routes and flights, reducing utilization, and parking older generation airplanes. Following its first profitable year since 2000 in 2007, the airline industry fell back into losses in 2008 led by U.S. airlines. U.S. airlines were most exposed to the
fuel price shock due to limited hedging and a weakening dollar, but as the demand environment deteriorated, airlines in all regions faced lower profit outlooks by the end of 2008.      The near-term outlook is highly uncertain due to the volatility of key drivers such as economic growth and fuel prices. Near-term air traffic growth forecasts vary significantly but generally indicate minimal to negative growth
in 2009. Early 2009 airline schedules show a 2%-3% decline in world capacity as airlines attempt to match capacity with air travel demand. Profitability forecasts for 2009 also range widely both at the global as well as regional levels. Airlines
continue to cut non-fuel costs including distribution, labor and overhead but significant uncertainty remains around fuel prices and revenues.      From time to time
certain customers may request cancelations, modifications, or rescheduling of their existing orders to meet revised fleet plans. Whether such requests will result in a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow or financial position depends
on a number of factors including whether the request is granted, the type of aircraft, how much compensation is paid to us for costs already incurred and our ability to reschedule other orders to replace those canceled, modified, or rescheduled.
     The fundamental drivers of air travel growth are a combination of economic growth and the increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization and
improved airline services driven by liberalization of air traffic rights between countries. Beyond the near-term market uncertainties, our 20-year forecast is for a long-term average growth rate of 5% per year for passenger traffic, and
6% per year for cargo traffic based on projected average annual worldwide real economic growth rate of 3%. Based on long-term global economic growth projections, and factoring in increased utilization of the worldwide airplane fleet and
requirements to replace older airplanes, we project a $3.2 trillion market for 29,400 new airplanes over the next 20 years.     The industry remains vulnerable to
near-term exogenous developments including disease outbreaks (such as avian flu), terrorism, and increased global environmental regulations.      Industry
Competitiveness  The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. We expect the existing long-term downward trend in passenger revenue yields worldwide (measured in real terms) to continue into the
foreseeable future. Market liberalization in Europe and Asia has continued to enable low-cost airlines to gain market share. These airlines have increased the downward pressure on airfares. This results in continued cost pressures for all airlines
and price pressure on our products. Major productivity gains are essential to ensure a favorable market position at acceptable profit margins.        
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Continued access to global markets remains vital to our ability to fully realize our sales potential and long-term investment
returns. Approximately 10% of Commercial Airplanes  contractual backlog in dollar terms is with U.S. airlines.     We face aggressive international competitors who
are intent on increasing their market share. They offer competitive products and have access to most of the same customers and suppliers. Airbus has historically invested heavily to create a family of products to compete with ours. Regional jet
makers Embraer and Bombardier, coming from the less than 100-seat commercial jet market, continue to develop larger and more capable airplanes. Additionally, other competitors from Russia, China, and Japan are likely to enter the 70 to 150 seat
aircraft market over the next few years. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on pricing and other competitive factors.     Worldwide, airplane
sales are generally conducted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuating exchange rates affect the profit potential of our major competitors, all of whom have significant costs in other currencies. A decline of the U.S. dollar relative to their local currencies
as experienced in 2007 puts pressure on competitors  revenues and profits. Competitors often respond by aggressively reducing costs and increasing productivity, thereby improving their longer-term competitive posture. Airbus has announced such
initiatives targeting overhead cost savings, a reduction in its development cycle and a significant increase in overall productivity through 2012. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen, Airbus can use the improved efficiency to fund product
development, gain market share through pricing, and/or improve earnings.     We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost-reduction efforts. We continue
to leverage our extensive customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world. This enables us to provide a higher level of customer
satisfaction and productivity. These efforts enhance our ability to pursue pricing strategies that enable us to price competitively.       Operating Results
       (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues       Year over year changes
in Revenue are shown in the following table:       
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

   The decrease in revenue of $5,123 million in 2008 from 2007 is primarily attributable to lower new airplane deliveries. The IAM
strike resulted in 104 airplane deliveries moving out of 2008 which reduced 2008 revenues by $6,406 million. The strike impact was partially offset by higher intercompany revenues of $804 million, and higher pre-strike deliveries, net of model mix
changes, of $726 million. Aircraft trading activity decreased by $264 million as a result of fewer sales of used aircraft. Revenues in commercial aviation services business increased by $17 million driven by increased spares and services revenue
offset by decreased passenger to freighter conversions.      The increase in revenue of $4,921 million in 2007 from 2006 is attributable to increased new airplane
deliveries, including model mix changes, of $3,369 million, increased commercial aviation services business of $1,432 million and increased aircraft trading activity of $120 million.      Commercial jet aircraft deliveries as of December 31, including deliveries under operating lease, which are identified by parentheses, were as follows:       
     
     Earnings from Operations       Earnings from operations decreased by $2,398 million in 2008 when compared with 2007, a decrease in operating margins of 6.5 percentage points to 4.2%. Lower new airplane deliveries, partially offset by higher intercompany revenues, reduced
earnings by $1,400 million. A charge for a reach-forward loss on the 747 program resulting from increases to estimated costs for development and production of 747-8 derivatives reduced 2008 earnings by $685 million. Infrastructure cost allocations
related to the 787 and 747-8 schedule delays and infrastructure costs incurred during the IAM strike reduced earnings by $287 million. The 787 and 747-8 schedule delays resulted in production programs receiving larger allocations of current and
future infrastructure costs and reduced margins on 2008 deliveries, while the program infrastructure costs incurred during the IAM strike decreased margins on airplanes delivered during the second half of the year. Increased period cost and other
performance reduced earnings by $108 million. A reduction in commercial aviation services volume and mix-related earnings of $42 million was primarily due to a decrease in volume on passenger to freighter conversion programs. Lower research and
development costs improved earnings by $124 million.      Earnings from operations increased by $851 million in 2007 when compared with 2006, an increase in operating
margins of 1.1 percentage points to 10.7%. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in new airplane deliveries of $950 million, improved cost performance of $169 million and commercial aviation services business increase of $304
million. These were offset by increased research and development costs of $572 million.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    Backlog  Firm backlog represents orders for products and services where no contingencies remain before Boeing and the
customer are required to perform. Backlog does not include prospective orders where customer controlled contingencies remain, such as the customers receiving approval from their Board of Directors, shareholders or government and completing financing
arrangements. All such contingencies must be satisfied or have expired prior to recording a new firm order even if satisfying such conditions is highly certain. Firm orders exclude options. A number of our customers may have contractual remedies
that may be implicated by program delays. We continue to address customer claims and requests for other contractual relief as they arise. However, once orders are included in firm backlog, orders remain in backlog until canceled or fulfilled,
although the value of orders is adjusted as changes to price and schedule are agreed to with customers.      The backlog increase in 2008 related to orders in excess of
deliveries for our 737NG, 767, 777 and 787 programs, while the increase in 2007 related to orders in excess of deliveries for all programs.       Accounting
Quantity  The accounting quantity is our estimate of the quantity of airplanes that will be produced for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts and is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and
costs of these contracts. It is a key determinant of gross margins we recognize on sales of individual airplanes throughout a program s life. Estimation of each program s accounting quantity takes into account several factors that are
indicative of the demand for that program, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. We review our program accounting quantities quarterly.      Commercial aircraft production costs include a significant amount of infrastructure costs, a portion of which do not vary with production rates. As the amount of time needed to produce the accounting quantity decreases, the
average cost of the accounting quantity also decreases as these infrastructure costs are included in the total cost estimates, thus increasing the gross margin and related earnings provided other factors do not change.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   The accounting quantity for each program may include units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract, and units
anticipated to be under contract in the reasonable future (anticipated orders). In developing total program estimates all of these items within the accounting quantity must be considered. The table below provides details as of December 31:

*  
     
  The accounting quantity for the 787 program will be determined in the year of first airplane delivery, targeted for 2010.    

1      
     
    Undelivered units are not adjusted for cancellations subsequent to December 31, 2008.      

2      
     
    Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries plus undelivered firm orders.
         737 Next-Generation  The accounting quantity for the 737 Next-Generation program increased by 400 units during 2008 due to the
program s normal progression of obtaining additional orders and delivering aircraft.       747 Program  In November 2008, we announced a revised schedule for
the delivery of the 747-8 Freighter and Intercontinental airplanes. Deliveries of the first 747-8 Freighter moved from the fourth quarter of 2009 into the third quarter of 2010. Delivery of the 747-8 Intercontinental moved from the fourth quarter of
2010 into the second quarter of 2011. The schedule change was caused by design changes, limited availability of engineering resources and the recent IAM strike. In the third quarter of 2008, we increased our cost estimates to incorporate the
anticipated schedule delay and design changes and reduced margins on the 747 program to zero. We experienced further cost growth in the fourth quarter and recorded a charge of $685 million to recognize a reach-forward loss. The charge is primarily
related to higher than anticipated costs due to late changes to wing design which drove new load requirements into the fuselage and created other statement of work changes for our suppliers. Design and load changes also reduced commonality with
747-400 and resulted in increased costs for components and systems. Higher pension costs, infrastructure cost shifts, delays in transitioning certain components to suppliers and higher internal production costs also increased cost estimates. We
believe that the cost and revenue estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate; however, this remains a development program, with the associated inherent risks.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   The accounting quantity for the 747 program increased by 25 units in 2008.       767 Program  The accounting quantity for the 767 program increased by 25 units during 2008. On February 29, 2008, the U.S. Air Force announced it had chosen a
competitor s bid over our proposed 767 derivative to build 179 replacement tankers for the Air Force s aging KC-135 fleet of air-to-air refueling tankers. On March 11, 2008, we filed a formal protest with the Government Accountability
Office, citing irregularities with the process of the tanker competition and the evaluation of the competitors  bids. On June 18, 2008, the Government Accountability Office sustained our protest of the contract award. On September 10,
2008, the Department of Defense notified the Congress and the two competing contractors, Boeing and Northrop Grumman, that it was terminating the current competition for a U.S. Air Force airborne tanker replacement. We anticipate that the tanker
competition will re-open in 2009.       777 Program  The accounting quantity for the 777 program increased by 100 units during 2008. Delivery of the first 777
Freighter is scheduled for early 2009.       787 Program  We are in the final stages of assembly of the initial airplanes and planning for flight test. The risks
that are always inherent in the latter stages of new airplane program production remain. We continue to address challenges associated with assembly of the first few airplanes, including management of our extended global supply chain, completion and
integration of traveled work, weight and systems integration. We are also continuing efforts to satisfy customer mission and performance needs in light of the anticipated weight of their respective aircraft. During 2008, we announced schedule delays
for the 787 airplane. First flight of the 787-8 airplane has moved from the second quarter of 2008 into the second quarter of 2009. Delivery of the first 787 moved from early 2009 into the first quarter of 2010. Delivery schedules for 787 derivative
airplanes may also be impacted. The revised schedule reflects the cumulative impacts of disruption caused by the recent IAM strike, the requirement to replace certain fasteners in early production airplanes, as well as the impact from the challenges
mentioned above. We continue to work with our customers and suppliers to assess the specific impacts of schedule changes, including delivery delays and supplier assertions associated with such changes. A number of our customers have contractual
remedies that may be implicated by our revised plan for the 787. We continue to address customer claims and requests for other contractual relief as they arise.       Fleet Support  We provide the operators of our commercial airplanes with assistance and services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services begin
prior to aircraft delivery and continue throughout the operational life of the aircraft. They include flight and maintenance training, field service support costs, engineering services and technical data and documents. The costs for fleet support
are expensed as incurred and have been historically less than 1.5% of total consolidated costs of products and services. This level of expenditures is anticipated to continue in the upcoming years. These costs do not vary significantly with current
production rates.       Research and Development  The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go-ahead and certification/initial delivery for major
Commercial Airplanes derivatives and programs.     

29   

Table of Contents  

   Our Research and development expense decreased $124 million in 2008. Research and development expense is net of development cost
sharing payments received from suppliers. The decrease in research and development spending for 2008 was primarily due to reduced 787 product development activities partially offset by $278 million of increased spending on the 747-8 program and $80
million of lower supplier development cost sharing payments.      Our Research and development expense increased $572 million in 2007. The increase in 2007 was due to
higher spending of $542 million, primarily on 787 and 747-8, and $30 million of lower supplier development cost sharing payments.       Additional Considerations  
     In 2008, we recorded a reach-forward loss on the 747 program and announced additional delays and challenges on the 787 program that highlight the risks that are
always inherent in new airplane programs and derivative airplanes. Costs related to development of new programs and derivative airplanes are generally expensed as incurred. Costs to produce new aircraft are included in inventory and accounted for
using program accounting. Airplane programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated production costs exceed our estimated program revenues for the accounting quantity. Generally commercial airplanes are sold on a firm fixed-price basis
with an indexed price escalation clause and are often sold several years before scheduled delivery. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. Many new airplanes and
derivatives have highly complex designs and require extensive coordination and integration with supplier partners. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to
perform the work or reduce our estimated price and result in higher period costs for research and development or reduce margins on future deliveries or in a material charge if the program has or is determined to have a reach-forward loss. Changes to
estimates of the program accounting quantity, production costs and rates, learning curve and costs of derivatives could also result in lower margins or reach-forward losses. While we believe the cost and revenue estimates incorporated in the
financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of these programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be extended, which could trigger termination provisions,
order cancellations or other financially significant exposure. Examples of such commercial development programs include the 787, 747-8 and 777 freighter.       Integrated Defense Systems       Business Environment and Trends      IDS consists of three capabilities-driven businesses: Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA), Network and Space Systems (N SS), and Global Services and Support (GS S).      Defense Environment Overview  The U.S. is faced with the continuing struggle to balance funding priorities for current irregular threats while preparing for potential threats from near-peer states with growing
sophistication and military means. The U.S. Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) faces the simultaneous requirements to recapitalize important defense capabilities and to transform the force to take advantage of available technologies to meet the
changing national security environment as outlined in the latest National Defense Strategy. All of this must be carried out against a backdrop of significant competing national priorities including dealing with the economic crisis. We anticipate
that the national security environment will remain challenging well into the next decade.     Policies of the new administration will impact the defense environment and
will likely include a complete review of the defense budget in FY2010 and beyond, more emphasis on increasing diplomatic efforts to expand and strengthen our alliances, and reforms to the defense acquisition process.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   Because U.S. DoD spending was about half of worldwide defense spending and represented approximately 80% of IDS revenue in 2008,
the trends and drivers associated with the U.S. DoD budget are critical. Although the U.S. DoD budget has grown substantially over the past decade, we anticipate the growth rate to level off over the next several years. In addition to the fiscal
year 2009 discretionary budget request of $515 billion, the President submitted supplemental requests totaling $70 billion. Procurement and Research and Development accounts continue to face increasing budgetary pressures due to growing requirements
from Operations and Maintenance (O M) and personnel costs tied to U.S. commitments overseas. However, this trend is partially offset by equipment recapitalization efforts and continued demand for systems development. Near-term forecast of the
defense budget environment shows limited growth in the 2009 to 2010 period for investment efforts with greater concern existing for the period following U.S. troop draw-downs in Iraq. We continue to see pressure to significantly reduce emergency
supplemental requests that have been used to cover the ongoing costs of the Global War on Terror.      It is unlikely that the U.S. DoD will be able to fully fund all
programs of record already in development as well as new initiatives. This imbalance between future costs of programs and expected funding levels is not uncommon in the U.S. DoD and is routinely managed by internally adjusting priorities and
schedules, restructuring programs, and lengthening production runs to meet the constraints of available funding and occasionally by cancellation of programs. We expect the U.S. DoD will respond to future budget constraints by focusing on
affordability strategies that emphasize utilization of off-the-shelf solutions and network-enabled operations. These strategies will be enabled through persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), long-range strike, special
operations, unmanned systems, cyber security, precision-guided kinetic and non-kinetic weapons as well as continued outsourcing of logistics and support activities to improve overall effectiveness while maintaining control over costs.     While international defense markets have not demonstrated the dramatic increases experienced by the U.S. market in recent years they have reversed the declining trend seen in the
1990s. The procurement deferrals taken by international countries has resulted in growing demands for new equipment to address operational requirements, aging inventories, and changing threat environments. Asymmetric warfare remains a key challenge
with many nations placing renewed emphasis on acquiring material that is deployable, survivable, and interoperable with the international community. Similar to the U.S., many European nations are facing pressures in their O M and personnel
budgets that are squeezing funding for investment. Middle Eastern markets continue to spend significant amounts on new equipment; however, the impact from volatile oil prices has the potential to affect willingness to commit extra budgetary
resources. In Asia growth is continuing with multiple nations pursuing major new acquisitions to address growing regional threats. The international market will be affected by the global economic challenges; however, the continuing threat
environment should keep the market stable in 2009.       Federal Market Environment  We continue to see growth in the needs of Federal customers particularly for
the Intelligence community and the Department of Homeland Security. Areas such as cyber security, border protection, and infrastructure security have increased in importance in order to meet the needs of the national security environment. We also
anticipate a continuation of the trend toward outsourcing federal and government services.       Civil Space Transportation and Exploration Environment  The
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has had stable annual funding in this decade. NASA s budget remains focused on needed funds for Space Shuttle Operations, International Space Station, and new initiatives associated with the
Vision for Space Exploration. NASA is continuing to pursue elements of the Vision for Space Exploration, which will provide additional opportunities in launch activities and research and development.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Satellite Environment  The commercial satellite market has strengthened since the downturn earlier in the decade
and is expected to stabilize with replacement demand through the end of the decade. Despite improvement in market demand the industry continues to be characterized by overcapacity creating strong competitive pressures on pricing.       Segment Name Changes       In the third quarter of 2008, we changed the names of the Precision
Engagement and Mobility Systems segment to Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA) and the Support Systems segment to Global Services and Support (GS S).       IDS
Realignment       Effective January 1, 2008 and 2007, certain programs were realigned between IDS segments. In addition, certain environmental remediation
contracts (formerly included in N SS) were transferred to the Other Segment. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment. See Note 21.       Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
    Since our operating cycle is long-term and involves many different types of development and production contracts with
varying delivery and milestone schedules, the operating results of a particular year, or year-to-year comparisons of revenues and earnings, may not be indicative of future operating results. In addition, depending on the customer and their funding
sources, our orders might be structured as annual follow-on contracts, or as one large multi-year order or long-term award. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of future workloads. The following
discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context.      Revenues  IDS revenues were unchanged in 2008 as revenue growth in GS S
was offset by decreases in BMA and N SS. IDS revenues decreased by 1% in 2007 primarily due to the exclusion of the government Delta volume from N SS revenues, now a revenue component for our joint venture ULA. Decreased revenue from this
exclusion and lower revenues in the BMA segment were partially offset by increased volume in other N SS programs and growth in the GS S segment.       Operating Earnings  IDS earnings, which include the effects of the IAM strike, decreased by $208 million in 2008 primarily due to lower earnings in the BMA segment resulting from a $248 million charge taken on the AEW C program in
the second quarter partially offset by higher earnings in the N SS Segment. IDS operating earnings increased by $409 million in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to $770 million of charges on AEW C in 2006. The 2007 increase was
partially offset by lower earnings in the N SS segment and other BMA programs.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

    Backlog  Total backlog is comprised of contractual backlog, which represents work we are on contract to perform for which we
have received funding, and unobligated backlog, which represents work we are on contract to perform for which funding has not yet been authorized and appropriated. IDS total backlog increased 2% in 2008, from $71,681 million to $73,004 million,
primarily due to multi-year contracts for the V-22 and Chinook and international orders for F-15 and C-17 aircraft. The increases were partially offset by deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior years with the largest decreases
in the FCS, C-17, F/A-18 and F-22 programs.      For further details on the changes between periods, refer to the discussions of the individual segments
below.      Additional Considerations       Our business includes a variety of
development programs which have complex design and technical challenges. Many of these programs have cost-type contracting arrangements. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if
milestones and technical progress are not accomplished. Examples of these programs include Airborne Laser, EA-18G, Family of Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals, FCS, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS), P-8A and
Proprietary programs.      Some of our development programs are contracted on a fixed-price basis. Many of these programs have highly complex designs. As technical or
quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of which could result in a material charge. These programs are ongoing, and
while we believe the cost and fee estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of these programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates
could be extended, which could trigger termination provisions, the loss of satellite in-orbit incentive payments, or other financially significant exposure. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated costs exceed our
estimated contract revenues. Examples of these programs include AEW C, international KC-767 Tanker, commercial and military satellites, Vigilare and High Frequency Modernisation.       Boeing Military Aircraft        Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues  BMA revenues decreased 2% in 2008 and 3% in 2007. The decrease of $248 million in 2008 is primarily driven
by lower F-22, Apache, F-18 and Chinook revenue partially offset by increased deliveries on F-15 and International KC-767 Tankers and C-17 contract mix. The decrease of $402 million in 2007 was due to reduced deliveries of the Apache and T-45
aircraft and Joint Direct Attack Munitions, partially offset by higher deliveries of Chinook and F/A-18 aircraft and higher volume on the P-8A program.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   Deliveries of new-build production aircraft, excluding remanufactures and modifications, were as follows:       
     Operating Earnings  BMA operating earnings decreased by $373 million in 2008 primarily due to a charge of $248 million
taken on the AEW C program in the second quarter. Delivery mix, lower volume and the IAM strike also contributed to the decrease in 2008. Operating earnings increased by $431 million in 2007 primarily due to the 2006 charges of $770 million on
AEW C, which were partially offset by lower 2007 earnings due to revised cost estimates on the international KC-767 Tanker program, lower prices on the C-17 program and revised cost and revenue estimates on the AEW C program. 
       Research and Development  The BMA segment continues to focus research and development resources to leverage customer knowledge, technical strength and
large-scale integration capabilities that provide innovative solutions to meet the warfighter s enduring needs. Research and development has remained consistent over the past several years. Research and development activities utilize our
capabilities in architectures, system-of-systems integration and weapon systems technologies to develop solutions which are designed to enhance our customers  capabilities in the areas of mobility, precision effects, situational awareness and
survivability. These efforts focus on increasing mission effectiveness and interoperability, and improving affordability, reliability and economic ownership.       Backlog  BMA total backlog increased by 13% in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in the V-22, Chinook and F-15 program backlog. These increases were partially offset by deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts
awarded in prior years with the largest decreases in the C-17 and F/A-18 programs. Total backlog decreased by 6% in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to deliveries and sales on C-17, F/A-18, P-8A and F-15. These decreases were partially offset
by a multi-year contract for F-22 aircraft and international orders for AEW C and F/A-18 aircraft.       Additional Considerations      Items which could have a future impact on BMA operations include the following:       AEW C
 During 2006, we recorded charges of $770 million and during the second quarter of 2008 we recorded a charge of $248 million related to revised cost and revenue estimates to complete the AEW C programs in Australia and Turkey. The 2008 charge
is primarily related to our program in Australia and is due to subsystem development issues on the electronic warfare and ground support systems and the additional time required for integration testing. These factors required a revised delivery
schedule for the Australian aircraft. These delays are not expected to affect delivery schedules to our other AEW C customers. The AEW C development program, also known as Wedgetail in Australia, Peace Eagle in Turkey and Peace Eye in the
Republic of Korea, consists of a 737-700 aircraft outfitted with a variety of command and control and advanced radar systems, some of which  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

have never been installed on an airplane before. Wedgetail includes six aircraft and Peace Eagle and Peace Eye include four aircraft each. These are advanced and
complex fixed-price development programs involving technical challenges at the individual subsystem level and in the overall integration of these subsystems into a reliable and effective operational capability. We believe that the cost and revenue
estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate; however, the technical complexity of the programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may be necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be delayed.       International KC-767 Tanker Program  During 2008 and 2007, the BMA segment recorded charges of $85 million and $152 million. The 2007 charge was partially offset at the
consolidated level. The international KC-767 Tanker program includes four aircraft for the Italian Air Force and four aircraft for the Japanese Air Self Defense Force. We delivered the first two tankers to Japan during the first quarter of 2008.
These programs are ongoing, and while we believe the cost estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of the programs creates financial risk as additional completion and development costs may be
necessary or remaining scheduled delivery dates could be delayed.       C-17  As of December 31, 2008, we delivered 182 of the 190 C-17 aircraft ordered by the
U.S. Air Force (USAF), with final deliveries scheduled for 2009. In June 2007 and April 2008, we directed key suppliers to begin work on 10 and 20 aircraft, respectively, beyond the 190 to support potential Fiscal Year 2008 (FY08) and Fiscal Year
2009 (FY09) orders and anticipated international orders. Our authorizations allowed us to maintain the current C-17 production rate and to provide for cost-effective acquisition of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2008, inventory expenditures
and potential termination liabilities to suppliers, primarily related to the anticipated FY08 USAF order, totaled approximately $720 million. In June 2008, the FY08 supplemental defense spending bill, signed by the President, included funding for up
to an additional 15 C-17 aircraft. The USAF placed these aircraft on contract on February 6, 2009. There continues to be substantial interest in purchasing additional C-17 aircraft from both the U.S. government and international customers. The
National Defense Authorization Act signed into law by the President authorizes the procurement of six C-17s in FY09. However, funding would need to be addressed in a future defense appropriations bill. Should additional orders not materialize, it is
reasonably possible that we will decide in 2009 to complete production of the C-17. We are still evaluating the full financial impact of a potential production shut-down, including any recovery that would be available from the government. Such
recovery from the government would not include the costs incurred by us resulting from our direction to key suppliers to begin working on aircraft beyond the 190 ordered by the USAF.       Network and Space Systems        Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues  N SS revenues decreased 1% in 2008 and 2% in 2007. The decrease of $137 million in 2008 is primarily due to
decreased revenues in FCS, Proprietary and satellite programs partially offset by increased revenues in the SBInet program. The decrease of $292 million in 2007 was primarily due to the exclusion of government Delta volume, now a component of our
equity investment in ULA and lower FCS volume, partially offset by increased volume on SBInet and several satellite programs.      Delta launch and new-build satellite
deliveries were as follows:       
    Delta government launches are excluded from our deliveries after December 1, 2006 due to the formation of ULA.
      Operating Earnings  N SS operating earnings increased by $171 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased earnings from our investment in ULA. The
decrease in 2007 was due to lower earnings on FCS and several satellite programs. These decreases were partially offset by higher award fees on GMD and a $44 million gain on sale of a property in Anaheim. N SS operating earnings include equity
earnings of $73 million, $85 million and $71 million from the United Space Alliance joint venture in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively and equity earnings of $105 million, a loss of $11 million and equity earnings of $5 million from the ULA joint
venture in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The ULA equity earnings and loss amounts are net of the basis difference amortization.       Research and Development
 The N SS research and development funding remains focused on the development of communications, command and control, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems (C4ISR); communications and command and control (C3)
capabilities that support a network-enabled architecture approach for our various government customers. We are investing in communications capabilities to enable connectivity between existing air/ground platforms, increase communications
availability and bandwidth through more robust space systems, and leverage innovative communications concepts. Key programs in this area include JTRS, FCS, Global Positioning System, Tracking and Data Relay Satellite, Ares 1 Crew Launch Vehicle and
GMD. Investments were also made to support concepts that may lead to the development of next-generation space intelligence systems. Along with increased funding to support these areas of architecture and network-enabled capabilities development, we
also maintained our investment levels in global missile defense and advanced missile defense concepts and technologies.       Backlog  N SS total backlog
decreased by 12% in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to revenues recognized on multi-year orders received in prior years on FCS, GMD and C3 programs, partially offset by an increase in the International Space Station program. Total backlog
decreased by 7% in 2007 compared with 2006 due to revenues recognized on FCS and Proprietary programs, partially offset by an increase in Space Exploration programs.       Additional Considerations       Items which could have a future impact on N SS operations include the following:       United Launch Alliance  On December 1, 2006, we completed the transaction with Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed) to create a 50/50 joint venture named United
Launch Alliance L.L.C. (ULA). ULA combines the production, engineering, test and launch operations associated with U.S. government launches of Boeing Delta and Lockheed Atlas rockets. In connection with the transaction,  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

we initially contributed net assets of $914 million at December 1, 2006. The book value of our investment exceeds our proportionate share of ULA s net
assets. This difference will be expensed ratably in future years. Based on the adjusted contributions and the conformed accounting policies established by ULA, this amortization is expected to be approximately $15 million annually for the next 16
years.      In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed each committed to provide up to $25 million in additional capital contributions and we each have
agreed to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 million to support its working capital requirements. We and Lockheed transferred performance responsibility for certain U.S. government contracts to ULA as of the closing date. We and Lockheed
agreed to jointly guarantee the performance of those contracts to the extent required by the U.S. government. ULA made a $100 million earnings distribution to each partner during the fourth quarter of 2008. In conjunction with the distribution, we
and Lockheed committed to provide ULA with additional capital contributions up to the amount of such distributions in the event ULA does not have sufficient funds to make a required payment to us under the inventory supply agreement. See Note 6 and
Note 10.      We agreed to indemnify ULA through December 31, 2020 against potential non-recoverability of $1,375 million of Boeing Delta inventories included in
contributed assets plus $1,860 million of inventory subject to an inventory supply agreement which ends on March 31, 2021. Since inception, ULA sold $548 million of inventories that were contributed by us. As part of its integration, ULA is
continuing to assess the future of the Delta II program beyond what is currently on contract. Future decisions regarding the Delta II program could reduce our earnings by up to $90 million.      We agreed to indemnify ULA in the event ULA is unable to obtain re-pricing of certain contracts which we contributed to ULA and to which we believe ULA is entitled. We will be
responsible for any shortfall and may record up to $386 million in pre-tax losses related to these contracts.       Sea Launch  The Sea Launch venture, in which we
are a 40% partner, provides ocean-based launch services to commercial satellite customers.      We issued credit guarantees to creditors of the Sea Launch venture to
assist it in obtaining financing and other support. In the event we are required to perform on these guarantees, we believe we can recover a portion of the cost (estimated at $271 million) through guarantees from the other venture partners. We have
also made loans directly to Sea Launch in the past. In the event that Sea Launch is unable to repay those loans, we believe we can recover a portion of the cost (estimated at $203 million) from the other venture partners. The components of this
exposure are as follows:       
    We made no additional capital contributions to the Sea Launch venture during the year ended December 31, 2008. Our
trade receivable increased from $337 million at December 31, 2007 to $385  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

million at December 31, 2008. The related allowance for losses increased from $334 million at December 31, 2007 to $377 million at December 31, 2008
reflecting Sea Launch s ongoing liquidity challenges.      The venture conducted five, zero and five successful launches for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007, and 2006, respectively. The venture has incurred losses during 2008, 2007 and 2006. The losses in 2008 and 2006 were due to the relatively low price of launches, driven by a depressed commercial satellite market and oversupply of launch
vehicles as well as a high level of debt and debt servicing requirements. The venture incurred losses in 2007 due to a delay in its 2007 launch manifest that was caused by a launch anomaly in January 2007 and unusually strong ocean currents at the
launch site during November and December.      We suspended recording equity losses after writing our investment in and direct loans to Sea Launch down to zero in 2001
and accruing our obligation for third-party guarantees on Sea Launch indebtedness. We are not obligated to provide any further financial support to the Sea Launch venture. However, in the event that we do extend additional financial support to Sea
Launch in the future, we will recognize suspended losses as appropriate. Approximately $250 million of Sea Launch s bank loans expire during 2009. In the event this amount is refinanced, Boeing may be called upon to renew its credit guarantee
to Sea Launch lenders; or, in the event Sea Launch is unable to obtain financing, Boeing may be required to perform on the existing credit guarantee, which could put in default Sea Launch s other external debt of approximately $200 million.
     In the event Sea Launch is unable to refinance its debt or meet its other contractual obligations and we are unable to recover guarantees from the other venture
partners, we could be required to pay up to $451 million under credit guarantees, which could result in charges of up to $510 million.      We continue to look at
alternatives to address funding requirements for the venture.       Satellites  See the discussions of Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc. (BSSI) in Note
20 Legal Proceedings.       Global Services and Support        Operating Results
       
     Revenues  GS S revenues increased $380 million in 2008 and $335 million in 2007, an increase of 6% and 5%. The
2008 increase was due to higher revenues in the Training Systems and Services (TS S) and Integrated Logistics (IL) divisions partially offset by decreases in International Support program volume. The 2007 increase was due to higher IL program
volume resulting from the 2006 acquisition of Aviall, Inc. (Aviall) and increased revenue on the C-17 support program. Higher international program volume in 2007 was the result of our increased ownership in Alsalam Aircraft Company (Alsalam) 

38   

Table of Contents  

which occurred during the second quarter of 2006. Lower volume on several Maintenance, Modification and Upgrades (MM U) and TS S programs partially
offset the 2007 increases.          Operating Earnings  GS S operating earnings decreased by less than 1% in 2008 due to changes in the contract mix and
disposition of contract matters. Operating earnings increased 4% in 2007 driven by the revenue increases mentioned above in addition to a different contract mix.       Research and Development  GS S continues to focus investment strategies on its core businesses including IL, MM U, TS S and Advanced Logistics Support Systems, as well as on moving into the innovative Network Centric
Logistics areas. Investments have been made to continue the development and implementation of innovative tools, processes and systems as market discriminators in the delivery of integrated customer solutions. Examples of successful programs stemming
from these investment strategies include the C-17 Globemaster Sustainment Partnership, the F/A-18 Integrated Readiness Support Teaming program, and the F-15 Singapore Performance Based Logistics contract. Successful development of adaptable systems
has allowed GS S to transition off Boeing platforms and into the broader aviation market. Beyond aerospace, GS S capabilities have created opportunities in adjacencies exemplified in 2008 through entrance into the land vehicles market.
      Backlog  GS S total backlog increased by 5% compared with 2007 primarily due to increases in IL and International Support programs. Total backlog
increased by 3% in 2007 compared with 2006 due to increases in TS S programs and International Support programs which were partially offset by decreases in MM U and IL programs.       Boeing Capital Corporation        Business Environment and Trends       BCC s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 totaled $6,023 million, which was substantially collateralized by Boeing produced commercial aircraft. A substantial portion of BCC s
portfolio is concentrated among U.S. commercial airlines customers. Continued problems in the airline industry could have a negative impact on lease rates, airline credit ratings and aircraft valuations, and BCC s future results of operations
could be adversely affected in the form of lower revenues, increased asset impairments, increased allowance for losses and increased redeployment costs. Continued problems in the airline industry could also affect our Commercial Airplanes and Other
segment.      The global credit crisis has affected the availability of credit generally. While there are still sources of financing available for aircraft deliveries,
the amount of third-party financing available has declined. We expect to finance some new deliveries of Boeing aircraft in 2009 and expect our portfolio size to increase. Once capital market conditions improve, we believe the overall aircraft
financing market should improve as well and lessen the need for us to provide financing for Boeing aircraft deliveries, although we can provide no assurance when that will occur.      Aircraft values and lease rates are impacted by the number and type of aircraft that are currently out of service. Approximately 2,200 western-built commercial jet aircraft (11.0% of current world fleet) were parked as of
December 2008, including both in-production and out-of-production aircraft types, of which over 40% are not expected to return to service. In December 2007 and 2006, 8.2% and 9.9% of the western-built commercial jet aircraft were parked. Aircraft
valuations could decline if significant numbers of aircraft, particularly types with relatively few operators, are placed out of service.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

    Summary Financial Information        
     Revenues       BCC segment revenues
consist principally of lease income from equipment under operating lease and interest from financing receivables and notes. BCC s revenues decreased $112 million in 2008, resulting from lower interest income on financing receivables and notes
of $66 million primarily due to the prepayment of certain notes and lower investment income of $20 million resulting from a lower investment balance. BCC s revenues decreased $210 million in 2007, primarily due to lower interest income on notes
receivable, lower investment income and lower net gain on disposal of assets.       Operating earnings       BCC s operating earnings are presented net of interest expense, provision for (recovery of) losses, asset impairment expense, depreciation on leased equipment and other
operating expenses. Operating earnings decreased by $72 million in 2008 primarily due to lower revenues and a provision for losses partially offset by lower interest expense. The decrease in operating earnings in 2007 compared with 2006 was
primarily due to lower revenues.       Financial Position       The following table
presents selected financial data for BCC as of December 31,:       
    BCC s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 decreased from December 31, 2007 due
to normal portfolio run-off. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, BCC had $685 million and $86 million of assets that were held for sale or re-lease of which $305 million and $86 million had firm contracts to be sold or placed on lease. The increase
in assets held for sale or re-lease primarily resulted from the return of 16 717 aircraft previously leased to Midwest Airlines (Midwest) and the return of four 757 aircraft previously leased to ATA Holdings Corp., which filed for bankruptcy
protection on April 2, 2008. Additionally, aircraft subject to leases with a carrying value of approximately $168 million are scheduled to be returned off lease in the next 12 months. These aircraft are being remarketed or the leases are being
extended and $64 million were committed at December 31, 2008.      BCC enters into certain transactions with the Other segment in the form of intercompany
guarantees and other subsidies.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Restructurings and Restructuring Requests       As of December 31, 2008, BCC has received a number of requests from both domestic and foreign airlines to reduce lease or rental payments or to otherwise restructure obligations. Whether such requests will result in a material adverse
impact on our earnings, cash flow or financial position depends on a number of factors including whether the request is granted, the type of aircraft, the collateral value and market rental rates of the returned aircraft.      In September 2008, we agreed to a restructuring of lease terms with Midwest, under which Midwest returned 16 of 25 717 aircraft. Additionally, the agreement provides us with
options to require Midwest to return the remaining nine 717 aircraft with varying notice periods. We are pursuing remarketing options for the aircraft returned to date and expected to be returned in the future. We do not expect that the return of
these aircraft as a result of this restructuring will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.       Other Segment  
      
    Effective January 1, 2008, certain intercompany items were realigned between the Other segment and Unallocated expense.
Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment. Other segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $259 million compared with 2007 primarily due to the sale of four C-17
aircraft held under operating lease, three of which were sold in 2008. Other segment operating losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $24 million compared with 2007 primarily due to lower environmental and certain other
charges offset by the recognition of a provision for losses of $82 million related to lower U.S. airline customer credit ratings. The provision for losses amount has been recorded in the Other segment as a result of intercompany guarantees we
provide to BCC. In 2008, Other segment included environmental remediation expense of $59 million compared with $109 million in 2007.      Other segment operating losses
were $331 million during 2007 as compared to losses of $813 million in 2006. The reduction of $482 million was primarily due to the absence of losses related to Connexion by Boeing, which we exited in 2006. As part of our exit from this business, we
recognized a charge of $320 million in 2006, in addition to losses of $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We have not reached final settlements with all customers or suppliers. We do not believe the final settlements will have a
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources        Cash
Flow Summary        
     Operating Activities  In 2008, operating activities resulted in a $401 million cash outflow in contrast to 2007 and
2006 when our operations generated significant cash surpluses of $9,584 million and $7,499 million. The decline in 2008 was primarily attributable to higher working capital requirements. In 2007 and 2006, customer advances increased at a faster rate
than inventory. In 2008 inventory grew at a faster rate than customer advances. The 2008 increase in inventories was driven by continued spending on production materials, airplane engines, and supplier advances during the IAM strike, lower
commercial airplane deliveries and the continued ramp-up of the 787 program. We expect to generate positive operating cash flows in 2009.      Net cash provided by
operating activities increased by $2,085 million to $9,584 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in Net earnings. Net working capital improvements in 2007 reflect higher advances driven by commercial airplane orders and decreases in customer
financing assets due to pre-payment of certain notes receivable and normal portfolio run-off, which were partially offset by an increase in inventories driven by the continued ramp-up of the 787 program.       Investing Activities  Cash provided by investing activities totaled $1,888 million in 2008 compared with $3,822 million used in 2007, largely due to the liquidation in 2008
of our investments in time deposits and commercial paper, and the liquidation of the majority of our investments in externally managed fixed income instruments, partially offset by $964 million of spending in 2008 on acquisitions.      Cash used for investing activities increased to $3,822 million in 2007 from $3,186 million in 2006, largely due to increases in short-term investments, partially offset by our
investment in the acquisition of Aviall in 2006.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

   The balance of time deposits, commercial paper and externally managed fixed income instruments classified as investments at
December 31 are summarized in the table below.       

(1)      
     
    Externally managed fixed income instruments consist primarily of investment grade instruments. These investments had an average
duration of 5.5 years at December 31, 2008 and are classified as available-for-sale.          Financing Activities  Cash used by financing
activities increased to $5,202 million in 2008 from $4,884 million in 2007 due to repayments of financed purchases of distribution rights, which are agreements with certain vendors that gives us exclusive rights to sell their applicable parts. The
increase was also due to a decrease in stock options exercised, an increase in common share repurchases and payments of employee taxes on certain share-based payment arrangements, partially offset by a reduction in debt repayments. Cash used by
financing activities increased to $4,884 million in 2007 from $3,645 million in 2006 primarily due to increased common share repurchases.      During 2008, we
repurchased 42,073,885 shares at an average price of $69.79 in our open market share repurchase program, 1,462,776 shares at an average price of $64.95 as part of the ShareValue Trust distribution, and 74,824 shares in stock swaps. During 2007, we
repurchased 28,995,599 shares at an average price of $95.68 in our open market share repurchase program and 28,432 shares in stock swaps. During 2006, we repurchased 21,184,202 shares at an average price of $80.18 in our open market share repurchase
program, 3,749,377 shares at an average price of $80.28 as part of the ShareValue Trust distribution, and 49,288 shares in stock swaps. We expect to reduce 2009 share repurchase activity to a minimal level.      In 2008, we repaid $738 million of debt, including $709 million of debt held at BCC. In 2007, we repaid $1,406 million of debt, including $1,309 million of debt held at BCC. In
2006, we repaid $1,681 million of debt, including $713 million of debt held at BCC and $458 million of debt assumed in the Aviall acquisition. There were no debt issuances during 2008, 2007, or 2006. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the recorded
balance of debt was $7,512 million and $8,217 million, of which $560 million and $762 million were classified as short-term. This includes $3,652 million and $4,327 million of debt recorded at BCC, of which $528 million and $706 million was
classified as short-term.       Credit Ratings  Our credit ratings are summarized below:       

Fitch  
      
  Moody s  
      
  Standard   Poor s   
 
    Long-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  A+  
      
  A2  
      
  A+   
 
    Short-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  F1  
      
  P-1  
      
  A-1   

43   

Table of Contents  

   On January 29, 2009 Standard   Poor s confirmed Boeing s A+ credit rating but changed its outlook from
stable to negative, citing the challenging commercial aviation environment.       Capital Resources  We have substantial borrowing capacity. We and BCC have
commercial paper programs that continue to serve as significant potential sources of short-term liquidity. Throughout 2008 and at December 31, 2008, neither we nor BCC had any commercial paper borrowings outstanding. Currently, we have $3,000
million ($1,500 million exclusively available for BCC) of unused borrowing on revolving credit line agreements, of which $2,000 million is a 5-year credit facility expiring in November 2012 and $1,000 million is a 364-day revolving credit facility
expiring in November 2009. Both the 5-year and 364-day credit facilities have a one-year term out option which allows us to extend the maturity of any borrowings one year beyond the aforementioned expiration dates. In 2008, we renewed the $1,000
million 364-day revolving credit facility, of which $500 million is allocated to BCC. We anticipate that these credit lines will primarily serve as backup liquidity to support possible commercial paper borrowings in 2009. BCC has a $5,000 million
shelf registration statement that was declared effective on November 12, 2008 under which it may offer debt securities.      We believe our ability to access
external capital resources should be sufficient to satisfy existing short-term and long-term commitments and plans, and also to provide adequate financial flexibility to take advantage of potential strategic business opportunities should they arise
within the next year. At this point in time, our access to liquidity sources has not been materially impacted by the current credit environment, and we do not expect that it will be materially impacted in the near future. There can be no assurance,
however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program, in the debt markets or our credit facilities will not be materially impacted by the ongoing capital market disruptions.      In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  (SFAS 158), we recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, with a corresponding after-tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive
loss. The 2008 annual remeasurement of our pension and other postretirement plans resulted in a net $8,565 million decrease in Shareholders  equity, primarily due to declines in our pension plan assets, as a result of declines in financial
markets. As a result of the pension remeasurement, we have negative Shareholders  equity at December 31, 2008. We do not expect negative Shareholders  equity to affect our ability to pay dividends or comply with debt covenants. The
2007 annual remeasurement of our pension and other postretirement plans resulted in a net $3,441 million increase in Shareholders  equity.      At December 31,
2008 our pension plans were $8,420 million underfunded as measured under GAAP and, in the aggregate, approximately $3,000 million underfunded as measured under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The difference in the funded status
between the two standards is mostly attributable to the fact that ERISA uses average asset values and discount rates, whereas GAAP requires us to measure our plan assets and discount our benefit obligations as of the end of the year. Required
contributions under ERISA, as well as rules governing funding of our non-U.S. pension plans, are not expected to exceed $50 million in 2009. We anticipate contributing approximately $500 million to our pension plans in 2009. Absent a recovery of
asset values or higher interest rates, we will be required to make higher contributions in future years.      As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with
the covenants for our debt and credit facilities.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

    Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments       The following table summarizes our known obligations to make future payments pursuant to certain contracts as of December 31, 2008, and the estimated timing thereof.
      Contractual Obligations        

*  
  Includes interest on variable rate debt calculated based on interest rates at December 31, 2008. Variable rate debt was approximately 3% of our total debt at December 31, 2008.
        Income Tax Obligations  As of December 31, 2008, our total liability for income taxes payable, including uncertain tax positions, was
$1,195 million, of which $41 million we expect to pay in the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the remaining $1,154 million. Our income tax obligations are excluded from the table
above. See Note 4.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits  Pension cash requirements are based on an estimate of our minimum funding requirements, pursuant
to ERISA regulations, although we may make additional discretionary contributions. Estimates of other postretirement benefits are based on both our estimated future benefit payments and the estimated contributions to a single plan that is funded
through a trust.       Purchase Obligations  Purchase obligations represent contractual agreements to purchase goods or services that are legally binding; specify a
fixed, minimum or range of quantities; specify a fixed, minimum, variable, or indexed price provision; and specify approximate timing of the transaction. In addition, the agreements are not cancelable without substantial penalty. Purchase
obligations include amounts recorded as well as amounts that are not recorded on the statements of financial position. Approximately 10% of the purchase obligations disclosed above are reimbursable to us pursuant to cost-type government contracts.
      Purchase Obligations Not Recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  Production related purchase obligations not recorded on the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include agreements for production goods, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts, property, plant and equipment, and other miscellaneous production related obligations. The most significant
obligation relates to inventory procurement contracts. We have entered into certain significant inventory procurement contracts that specify determinable prices and quantities, and long-term delivery timeframes. In addition, we purchase raw
materials on behalf of our suppliers. These agreements require suppliers and vendors to be prepared to build and deliver items in sufficient time to meet our production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises from
the extended production planning horizon for many of our products. A significant portion of these inventory commitments is supported by firm contracts and/or has historically resulted in settlement  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

through reimbursement from customers for penalty payments to the supplier should the customer not take delivery. These amounts are also included in our forecasts of
costs for program and contract accounting. Some inventory procurement contracts may include escalation adjustments. In these limited cases, we have included our best estimate of the effect of the escalation adjustment in the amounts disclosed in the
table above.       Industrial Participation Agreements  We have entered into various industrial participation agreements with certain customers outside of the U.S.
to facilitate economic flow back and/or technology transfer to their businesses or government agencies as the result of their procurement of goods and/or services from us. These commitments may be satisfied by our placement of direct work or vendor
orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts, transfer of technology or other forms of assistance. However, in certain cases, our commitments may be satisfied through other parties (such as our vendors) who purchase supplies from
our non-U.S. customers. We do not commit to industrial participation agreements unless a contract for sale of our products or services is signed. In certain cases, penalties could be imposed if we do not meet our industrial participation
commitments. During 2008, we incurred no such penalties. As of December 31, 2008, we have outstanding industrial participation agreements totaling $9 billion that extend through 2024. Purchase order commitments associated with industrial
participation agreements are included in the table above. To be eligible for such a purchase order commitment from us, a foreign supplier must have sufficient capability to meet our requirements and must be competitive in cost, quality and schedule.
      Purchase Obligations Recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  Purchase obligations recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position primarily include accounts payable and certain other liabilities including accrued compensation and dividends payable.       Commercial Commitments  The
following table summarizes our commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2008.       
    Commercial aircraft financing commitments include commitments to arrange or provide financing related to aircraft on order,
under option for deliveries or proposed as part of sales campaigns based on estimated earliest funding dates. Based on historical experience, we currently do not anticipate that all of these commitments will be exercised by our customers, see Note
11.       Industrial Revenue Bonds  We utilize Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB) to finance the purchase and/or construction of real and personal property, see Note
12.       Contingent Obligations       We have significant contingent obligations
that arise in the ordinary course of business, which include the following:       Legal  Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations are pending against
us. Legal contingencies are discussed in Note 20, including our contesting the default termination of the A-12 aircraft, employment and benefits litigation brought by several of our employees, and litigation/arbitration involving BSSI programs. 
         
   46   

Table of Contents  

    Environmental Remediation  We are involved with various environmental remediation activities and have recorded a liability of
$731 million at December 31, 2008. For additional information, see Note 11.         Income Taxes  We have recorded a net liability of $1,453 million at
December 31, 2008 for uncertain tax positions. For further discussion of these contingencies, see Note 4.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including certain guarantees. For discussion of these arrangements, see Note 12.       Critical Accounting Policies        Contract Accounting       Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and costs for each contract, which results in the development of estimated cost of sales
percentages. For each contract, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue recognized.      Due to the size, length of time and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs through completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Total contract sales estimates are based on negotiated contract
prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance, and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). The majority
of these contracts are with the U.S. government. Generally the price is based on estimated cost to produce the product or service plus profit. The Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in
establishing contract price. Total contract cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. Factors that influence these estimates
include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements.      The development of cost of sales percentages involves procedures and personnel in all areas that provide financial or production information on the status of contracts. Estimates of each significant contract s sales and
costs are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Any changes in these estimates result in recognition of cumulative adjustments to the contract profit in the period in which changes are made.      Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different
assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future periods. If the combined gross
margin for all contracts in IDS for all of 2008 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1%, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the year by approximately $320 million.       Program Accounting       Program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably
estimate the relationship of sales to costs for the defined program accounting quantity. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery
under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of existing and  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

anticipated contracts. For each program, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining
program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the customer.      Factors that must be estimated include program accounting quantity,
sales price, labor and employee benefit costs, material costs, procured part costs, major component costs, overhead costs, program tooling costs, and routine warranty costs. Estimation of the accounting quantity for each program takes into account
several factors that are indicative of the demand for the particular program, such as firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers, and market studies. Total estimated program sales are determined by estimating the model mix and sales
price for all unsold units within the accounting quantity, added together with the sales prices for all undelivered units under contract. The sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation adjustment that
is based on projected escalation rates, consistent with typical sales contract terms. Cost estimates are based largely on negotiated and anticipated contracts with suppliers, historical performance trends, and business base and other economic
projections. Factors that influence these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, customer and/or supplier claims or assertions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends.
     To ensure reliability in our estimates, we employ a rigorous estimating process that is reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimates are normally
recognized on a prospective basis; when estimated costs to complete a program exceed estimated revenues from undelivered units in the accounting quantity, a loss provision is recorded in the current period for the estimated loss on all undelivered
units in the accounting quantity.      The program method of accounting allocates tooling and production costs over the accounting quantity for each program. Because of
the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new program and substantial investment required for initial tooling, new commercial aircraft programs, such as the 787 program, typically have lower margins than established
programs.      Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different cost of sales amounts could be
recorded if we used different assumptions, or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future
periods. If combined cost of sales percentages for commercial airplane programs, excluding the 747 program, for all of 2008 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1%, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the year by
approximately $200 million. The 747 program is in a reach-forward loss position. Absent changes in the estimated revenues or costs, subsequent deliveries are recorded at zero margin. Reductions to the estimated loss in subsequent periods are spread
over all undelivered units in the accounting quantity, whereas increases to the estimated loss are recorded immediately.       Aircraft Valuation        Impairment Review for Assets Under Operating Leases and Held for Re-Lease  We evaluate for impairment assets under operating lease or assets held for re-lease when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the expected undiscounted cash flow from the asset may be less than its carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow including the expected future lease rates,
lease terms, residual value of the asset, periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset.      When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment expense recorded is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

   Had future lease rates on assets evaluated for impairment been 10% lower, we estimate that we would have incurred additional
impairment expense of $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.       Allowance for Losses on Customer Financing Receivables  The allowance for losses
on receivables (valuation provision) is used to provide for potential impairment of receivables in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The balance represents an estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the receivables portfolio.
The estimate is based on various qualitative and quantitative factors, including historical loss experience, collateral values, and results of individual credit and collectibility reviews. The adequacy of the allowance is assessed quarterly.
     Three primary factors influencing the level of our allowance are customer credit ratings, collateral values and default rates. If each customer s credit rating
were upgraded or downgraded by one major rating category at December 31, 2008, the allowance would have decreased by $109 million or increased by $251 million. If the collateral values were 10% higher or lower at December 31, 2008, the
allowance would have decreased by $66 million or increased by $71 million. If the cumulative default rates used for each rating category should increase or decrease 1%, the allowance would have increased by $5 million or decreased by $5 million.
      Lease Residual Values  Equipment under operating leases is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and is depreciated to estimated residual value using
the straight-line method over the period that we project we will hold the asset for lease. Estimates used in determining residual values significantly impact the amount and timing of depreciation expense for equipment under operating leases. If the
estimated residual values declined 5% at December 31, 2008, this would result in a future cumulative pre-tax earnings impact of $75 million recognized over the remaining depreciable periods, of which $7 million would be recognized in 2009.
      Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Impairments       Goodwill and other
acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are annually tested for impairment, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. April 1 is our annual
testing date. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount
of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of
goodwill impairment.      We estimate the fair values of the related operations using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best
estimate of future sales and operating costs, based primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market conditions. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the
amount of impairment recorded, if any.      The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from our market capitalization plus a suitable
control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price may also affect the amount of impairment recorded.      Since the date of our annual
impairment test on April 1, we have updated our forecasts to reflect among other things the global economic downturn, delays in development programs, and the impacts of the recent IAM strike. Because of these changes in circumstances, we have
verified that goodwill is not impaired as of December 31, 2008. However, further changes in our forecasts or decreases in the value of our common stock could cause book values of certain operations to exceed their fair values which may result
in goodwill impairment charges in future periods. A 10% decrease in the estimated fair value of any of our operations will have no impact on the carrying value of goodwill.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $499 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Jeppesen and Aviall
brand and trade names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles for impairment by comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any excess carrying value
over the amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment. A 10% decrease in the discounted cash flows could result in an impairment charge of approximately $17 million.       Postretirement Plans       Substantially all our employees are covered by defined benefit
pension plans. We also have other postretirement benefits consisting principally of healthcare coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Accounting rules require an annual measurement of our projected obligations and plan assets.
These measurements require several assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend rate (rate of growth for medical costs). Changes in assumptions can significantly
affect our future annual expense and projected benefit obligations. In addition, as a result of our adoption of SFAS 158, differences between actual and expected returns on assets, changes in assumptions, and changes in plan provisions could
significantly increase or decrease Shareholders  Equity (net of taxes) at future measurement dates. Effective for December 31, 2008, SFAS 158 requires us to measure our plan assets and benefit obligations as of December 31, our
year-end. Previously, our annual measurement date was September 30.      We use a discount rate that is based on a point-in-time estimate as of our December 31
annual measurement date. Changes in the discount rate will increase or decrease our recorded liabilities with a corresponding adjustment to Shareholders  Equity as of the measurement date. In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our
pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 25 basis point change in the discount rate.      As of December 31, 2008  (in
millions)        

Change in discount rate Increase 25 bps  

Change in discount rate Decrease 25 bps   
 
     Pension plans    
      
  Dollars  

Dollars   

Projected benefit obligation (pensions)   
      
  (1,350  
  )  
     
  1,599   
 
    Net periodic pension cost   
      
  (164  
  )  
     
  181   

Other postretirement benefit plans    

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  (165  
  )  
     
  180   
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   
      
  (14  
  )  
     
  14   

Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. A decrease or increase of 25
basis points in the expected long-term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2008 net periodic pension expense by $116 million. For 2009, we are reducing our expected rate of return on pension plan assets by 25 basis points to 8.00%
which will increase 2009 net periodic pension cost by approximately $100 million.      Differences between actual and expected returns can affect future year s
pension cost. The asset balance used to calculate the expected return on pension plan assets is a calculated value that recognizes changes in the fair value of assets over a five year period. Losses incurred on our pension investments in 2008 will
increase 2009 net periodic pension cost by approximately $450 million through a combination of lower expected returns on assets and higher amortization of actuarial losses. Absent a recovery of asset values or higher interest rates or higher
contributions, net periodic pension expense will increase further in future years.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

   The assumed medical trend rates have a significant effect on the following year s expense, recorded liabilities and
Shareholders  Equity. In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 100 basis point change.      As of December 31, 2008  (in millions)        

Change in medical trend rate Increase 100 bps  
      
  Change in medical trend rate Decrease 100 bps  

Other postretirement benefit plans    

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  640  
      
  (567  
  )   
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   
      
  120  
      
  (106  
  )   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk        Interest Rate Risk       We have financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk,
principally investments, fixed-rate debt obligations, and customer financing assets and liabilities. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on these instruments due to interest rate changes. Additionally, BCC uses interest
rate swaps with certain debt obligations to manage exposure to interest rate changes.      The principal source of BCC s market risk relates to interest rate
changes. Exposure to this risk is managed by generally matching the profile of BCC s liabilities with that of BCC s assets in relation to amount and terms such as expected maturities and fixed versus floating interest rates. Interest rate
derivatives are tools used to assist with this matching and are not used for speculative purposes. Matching is a dynamic process affected by changes in our assets that may require adjusting our liabilities and/or derivatives. Although many of the
assets, liabilities and derivatives affected by a change in interest rates are not traded, if we had an immediate, one-time, 100 basis-point increase in market rates at December 31, 2008, we estimate that the tax-adjusted net fair value of
these items would have decreased by $1 million compared to a decrease of $12 million at December 31, 2007.      Based on the portfolio of other Boeing existing
debt, the unhedged exposure to interest rate risk is not material. The investors in the fixed-rate debt obligations that we issue do not generally have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity. Therefore, exposure to
interest rate risk is not believed to be material for our fixed-rate debt.       Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk       We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies. We use foreign currency forward and
option contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to our ongoing business. Foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. At December 31, 2008, a 10% increase in the exchange rate in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have decreased our unrealized losses by $70 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would have decreased our
unrealized losses by $196 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the
remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward currency contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments do not create material market risk.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated
Statements of Operations        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 57   110.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Financial Position        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 57   110.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 57   110.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 57   110.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Summary of Business Segment Data        
    This information is an integral part of the Notes to consolidated financial statements. See Note 21 for further segment
results.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006  
      (Dollars in millions except per share data)        Note 1
  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Principles of Consolidation       Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities that are required to be consolidated. These statements have been prepared by management of The Boeing Company
(herein referred to as  Boeing , the  Company ,  we ,  us , or  our ).       Use of Estimates       Management makes assumptions and estimates to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Those
assumptions and estimates directly affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant estimates for which changes in the near term are considered reasonably possible and that may have a material impact on the financial
statements are disclosed in these notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Operating Cycle       For classification of certain current assets and liabilities, we use the duration of the related contract or program as our operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year
and could exceed 3 years.       Revenue and Related Cost Recognition        Contract Accounting  Contract accounting is used for development and production activities predominantly by Integrated Defense Systems (IDS). The majority of business conducted by IDS is performed under contracts with the U.S.
government and non-U.S. governments that extend over several years. Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and costs for each contract resulting in the development of estimated cost of sales percentages. For
each contract, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue recognized.      We combine
contracts for accounting purposes when they are negotiated as a package with an overall profit margin objective, essentially represent an agreement to do a single project for a single customer, involve interrelated construction activities with
substantial common costs, and are performed concurrently or sequentially. When a group of contracts is combined, revenue and profit are earned uniformly over the performance of the combined contracts.      Sales related to fixed-price contracts are recognized as deliveries are made, except for certain fixed-price contracts that require substantial performance over an extended period
before deliveries begin, for which sales are recorded based on the attainment of performance milestones. Sales related to contracts in which we are reimbursed for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit are recorded as costs are incurred. The
Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in establishing contract price. Contracts may contain provisions to earn incentive and award fees if specified targets are achieved. Incentive and award
fees that can be reasonably estimated and are probable are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentive and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

    Program Accounting  Our Commercial Airplanes segment predominantly uses program accounting to account for cost of sales
related to its programs. Program accounting is applicable to products manufactured for delivery under production-type contracts where profitability is realized over multiple contracts and years. Under program accounting, inventoriable production
costs, program tooling costs, and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged to cost of sales by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to
be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of
existing and anticipated contracts. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the units can
reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling, and routine warranty costs for the total program.      We recognize sales for commercial airplane deliveries as each unit is completed and accepted by the customer. Sales recognized represent the price negotiated with the customer, adjusted by an escalation formula as specified in
the customer agreement. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the customer.
      Concession Sharing Arrangements  We account for sales concessions to our customers in consideration of their purchase of products and services as a reduction
to revenue (sales concessions) when the related products and services are delivered. The sales concessions incurred may be partially reimbursed by certain suppliers in accordance with concession sharing arrangements. We record these reimbursements,
which are presumed to represent reductions in the price of the vendor s products or services, as a reduction in Cost of products.       Spare Parts Revenue  We
recognize sales of spare parts upon delivery and the amount reported as cost of sales is recorded at average cost.       Service Revenue  Service revenue is
recognized when the service is performed with the exception of U.S. government service agreements, which are accounted for using contract accounting. Service activities primarily include: Delta launches, ongoing maintenance of International Space
Station and Space Shuttle, support agreements associated with military aircraft and helicopter contracts, and technical and flight operation services for commercial aircraft. Service revenue and associated cost of sales from pay-in-advance
subscription fees are deferred and recognized as services are rendered.       Financial Services Revenue  We record financial services revenue associated with
sales-type finance leases, operating leases, and notes receivable.      Lease and financing revenue arrangements are included in Sales of services on the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. For sales-type finance leases, we record an asset at lease inception. This asset is recorded at the aggregate future minimum lease payments, estimated residual value of the leased equipment, and deferred incremental direct
costs less unearned income. Income is recognized over the life of the lease to approximate a level rate of return on the net investment. Residual values, which are reviewed periodically, represent the estimated amount we expect to receive at lease
termination from the disposition of the leased equipment. Actual residual values realized could differ from these estimates. Declines in estimated residual value that are deemed other-than-temporary are recognized as Cost of services in the period
in which the declines occur.      For operating leases, revenue on leased aircraft and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Operating lease assets, included in Customer financing, are recorded at  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

cost and depreciated over the period that we project we will hold the asset to an estimated residual value, using the straight-line method. Prepayments received on
operating lease contracts are classified as Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. We periodically review our estimates of residual value and recognize forecasted changes by prospectively adjusting
depreciation expense.      For notes receivable, notes are recorded net of any unamortized discounts and deferred incremental direct costs. Interest income and
amortization of any discounts are recorded ratably over the related term of the note.       Reinsurance Revenue  Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, Astro Ltd.,
participates in a reinsurance pool for workers  compensation. The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance pool minimize any participating members  individual risk. Reinsurance revenues were $83, $84, and $84 during 2008, 2007,
and 2006 respectively. Reinsurance costs related to premiums and claims paid to the reinsurance pool were $86, $93, and $91 during 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. Revenues and costs are presented net in Cost of services in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.       Fleet Support       We provide assistance and
services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation to the operators of all our commercial airplane models. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services include flight and maintenance training, field service
support, engineering services, and technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training, manuals, and technical consulting support. This activity continues throughout the
aircraft s operational life. Services provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair, and operational issues brought forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the
issuance of service bulletins that impact the entire model s fleet. Field service support involves our personnel located at customer facilities providing and coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are
expensed as incurred as Cost of services.       Research and Development       Research and development includes costs incurred for experimentation, design, testing, and bid and proposal efforts related to government products and services and are expensed as incurred unless the costs are related to certain contractual
arrangements. Costs that are incurred pursuant to such contractual arrangements are recorded over the period that revenue is recognized, consistent with our contract accounting policy. We have certain research and development arrangements that meet
the requirement for best efforts research and development accounting. Accordingly, the amounts funded by the customer are recognized as an offset to our research and development expense rather than as contract revenues.      We have established cost sharing arrangements with some suppliers for the 787 program, which have enhanced our internal development capabilities and have offset a substantial
portion of the financial risk of developing this aircraft. Our cost sharing arrangements state that the supplier contributions are for reimbursements of costs we incur for experimentation, basic design, and testing activities during the 787
development. In each arrangement, we retain substantial rights to the 787 part or component covered by the arrangement. The amounts received from these cost sharing arrangements are recorded as a reduction to research and development expenses since
we have no obligation to refund any amounts received per the arrangements regardless of the outcome of the development efforts. Specifically, under the terms of each agreement, payments received from suppliers for their share of  
       
   59   

Table of Contents  

the costs are typically based on milestones and are recognized as earned when we achieve the milestone events and no ongoing obligation on our part exists. In the
event we receive a milestone payment prior to the completion of the milestone, the amount is classified in Accounts payable and other liabilities until earned.       Share-Based Compensation       Our primary types of share-based compensation consist of stock options, ShareValue Trust distributions, Performance Shares,
and other stock unit awards, which we account for in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R).       Income
Taxes       Provisions for federal, state, and non-U.S. income taxes are calculated on reported Earnings before income taxes based on current tax law and also include,
in the current period, the cumulative effect of any changes in tax rates from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such provisions differ from the amounts currently receivable or payable because certain items of
income and expense are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions.      Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN
48), which requires a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We record a liability for the difference between the benefit recognized and
measured pursuant to FIN 48 and the tax position taken or expected to be taken on our tax return. To the extent that our assessment of such tax positions changes, the change in estimate is recorded in the period in which the determination is made.
Prior to 2007, we established contingencies for income tax when, despite the belief that our tax positions were fully supportable, we believed that it was probable that our positions would be challenged and possibly disallowed by various
authorities. The consolidated tax provision and related accruals included the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate.      With the adoption of FIN 48, we also began reporting tax-related interest and penalties as a component of Income tax expense. Prior to 2007, income tax-related interest income was classified as Other income, net, whereas,
tax-related interest expense and penalties were reported as a component of Income tax expense.       Postretirement Plans       We sponsor various pension plans covering substantially all employees. We also provide postretirement benefit plans other than pensions, consisting principally of health care
coverage to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Benefits under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at retirement and years of service and, for some pension plans, benefits are also based on the
employee s annual earnings. The net periodic cost of our pension and other postretirement plans is determined using the projected unit credit method and several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the
long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend (rate of growth for medical costs). A portion of net periodic pension and other postretirement income or expense is not recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to
production as product costs, and reflected in inventory at the end of a reporting period. If gains and losses, which occur when actual experience differs from actuarial assumptions, exceed ten percent of the greater of plan assets or plan
liabilities we amortize them over the average future service period of employees.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   Effective December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  (SFAS No. 158) which requires that the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflect the funded status of the pension and
postretirement plans. Effective December 31, 2008, SFAS No. 158 requires us to measure plan assets and benefit obligations at December 31, the date of our year end. We previously performed this measurement at September 30 of each
year.       Postemployment Plans       We record a liability for postemployment
benefits, such as severance or job training, when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated.       Environmental Remediation       We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for
discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. We routinely assess, based on in-depth studies, expert analyses and legal reviews, our contingencies, obligations, and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites,
including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties who have and have not agreed to a settlement and of recoveries from insurance carriers. Our policy is to accrue and charge to current expense identified
exposures related to environmental remediation sites based on our best estimate within a range of potential exposure for investigation, cleanup, and monitoring costs to be incurred. Estimated remediation costs are not discounted to present value as
the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. We may be able to recover a portion of the remediation costs from insurers or other third-parties. Such recoveries are recorded when realization of the claim for recovery is deemed probable.
      Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid instruments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, time deposits, and other money market instruments, which have original maturities of less than three months. We aggregate our cash balances by bank, and reclassify any negative
balances to Accounts payable and other liabilities.       Inventories       Inventoried costs on commercial aircraft programs and long-term contracts include direct engineering, production and tooling costs, and applicable overhead, which includes fringe benefits, production related indirect and plant management
salaries and plant services, not in excess of estimated net realizable value. To the extent a material amount of such costs are related to an abnormal event or are fixed costs not appropriately attributable to our programs or contracts, they are
expensed in the current period rather than inventoried. Inventoried costs include amounts relating to programs and contracts with long-term production cycles, a portion of which is not expected to be realized within one year. Included in inventory
for federal government contracts is an allocation of allowable costs related to manufacturing process reengineering. We net advances and progress billings on long-term contracts against costs incurred to date for each contract in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. Contracts where costs incurred to date exceed advances and progress billings are reported in Inventories, net of advances and progress billings. Contracts where advances and progress billings exceed costs incurred
to date are reported in Advances and billings in excess of related costs.      Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new or
derivative commercial airplane program, the actual costs incurred for production of the early units in the program  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

may exceed the amount reported as cost of sales for those units. In addition, the use of a total program gross profit rate to delivered units may result in costs
assigned to delivered units in a reporting period being less than the actual cost of those units. The excess actual costs incurred over the amount reported as cost of sales is disclosed as deferred production costs, which are included in inventory
along with unamortized tooling costs.      The determination of net realizable value of long-term contract costs is based upon quarterly reviews that determine an
estimate of costs to be incurred to complete all contract requirements. When actual contract costs and the estimate to complete exceed total estimated contract revenues, a loss provision is recorded. The determination of net realizable value of
commercial aircraft program costs is based upon quarterly program reviews that determine an estimate of revenue and cost to be incurred to complete the program accounting quantity. When estimated costs to complete exceed estimated program revenues
to go, a program loss provision is recorded in the current period for the estimated loss on all undelivered units in the accounting quantity.      Used aircraft
purchased by the Commercial Airplanes segment and general stock materials are stated at cost not in excess of net realizable value. See  Aircraft valuation  within this Note for our valuation of used aircraft. Spare parts inventory is
stated at lower of average unit cost or market. We review our commercial spare parts and general stock materials quarterly to identify impaired inventory, including excess or obsolete inventory, based on historical sales trends, expected production
usage, and the size and age of the aircraft fleet using the part. Impaired inventories are charged to Cost of products in the period the impairment occurs.      Included
in inventory for commercial aircraft programs are amounts paid or credited in cash, or other consideration to certain airline customers, that are referred to as early issue sales consideration. Early issue sales consideration is recognized as a
reduction to revenue when the delivery of the aircraft under contract occurs. In the unlikely situation that an airline customer was not able to perform and take delivery of the contracted aircraft, we believe that we would have the ability to
recover amounts paid through retaining amounts secured by advances received on aircraft to be delivered. However, to the extent early issue sales consideration exceeds advances and is not considered to be recoverable, it would be recognized as a
current period expense.       Precontract Costs       We may, from time to time,
incur costs to begin fulfilling the statement of work under a specific anticipated contract that we are still negotiating with a customer. If we determine it is probable that we will be awarded the specific anticipated contract, then we capitalize
the precontract costs we incur, excluding any start-up costs which are expensed as incurred. Capitalized precontract costs of $350 and $27 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, are included in Inventories, net of advances and progress billings, in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.       Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including applicable construction-period interest, less accumulated depreciation and are depreciated principally over the following estimated useful lives: new buildings and
land improvements, from 10 to 40 years; and new machinery and equipment, from 3 to 20 years. The principal methods of depreciation are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 150% declining balance; and machinery and equipment,
sum-of-the-years  digits. Capitalized internal use software is included in Other assets and amortized using the straight line method over five years. We periodically evaluate the appropriateness of remaining depreciable lives assigned to
long-lived assets, including assets that may be subject to a management plan for disposition.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   We review long-lived assets, which includes property, plant and equipment, for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  (SFAS No. 144). Long-lived assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Long-lived assets held for use are subject to an impairment
assessment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment
is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.       Asset Retirement Obligations       In accordance with FIN 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143,  we record all known asset
retirement obligations for which the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts are not material.      We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that are not
reasonably estimable due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, these obligations have not been recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. A liability for these obligations will
be recorded in the period when sufficient information regarding timing and method of settlement becomes available to make a reasonable estimate of the liability s fair value. In addition, there may be conditional asset retirement obligations
that we have not yet discovered (e.g. asbestos may exist in certain buildings but we have not become aware of it through the normal course of business), and therefore, these obligations also have not been included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements.       Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangibles       Goodwill and other
acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that impairment may exist. Our annual testing date is
April 1.      We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is
determined to be less than carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its
carrying value. The shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment.      Indefinite-lived intangibles consist of brand and
trade names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles for impairment by comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any excess carrying value over the
amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment.      Our finite-lived acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives as follows: developed technology, 3 to 13 years; product know-how, 3 to 30 years; customer base, 10 to 16 years; distribution rights, 9 to 30 years; and other, 3 to 25 years. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, we
evaluate the potential impairment of finite-lived acquired intangible assets when appropriate. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference
between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Investments       We classify investment
securities as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Held-to-maturity securities include commercial paper and are carried at amortized cost.      Available-for-sale securities include marketable debt and equity securities and an Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificate (EETC) and are recorded at their fair values, with unrealized gains and losses reported as part of Accumulated other
comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Realized gains and losses on marketable securities are recognized based on the cost of securities using the first-in, first-out method. Realized gains and losses on all other
available-for-sale securities are recognized based on specific identification.      Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are assessed for impairment
quarterly. To determine if an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider the duration and severity of the loss position, the strength of the underlying collateral, the term to maturity, and credit rating. For investments that are deemed
other-than-temporarily impaired, losses are recorded in Cost of products or Cost of services and payments received on these investments are recorded using the cost recovery method.      The equity method of accounting is used to account for investments for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if we
have an ownership interest in the voting stock of an investee of between 20% and 50%.      We classify investment income and loss on our Consolidated Statements of
Operations based on whether the investment is operating or non-operating in nature. Operating investments align strategically and are integrated with our operations. Earnings from operating investments, including our share of income or loss from
equity method investments, dividend income from certain cost method investments, and any gain/loss on the disposition of these investments, are recorded in Income from operating investments, net. Non-operating investments are those we hold for
non-strategic purposes. Earnings from non-operating investments, including interest and dividends on marketable securities, are recorded in Other income, net.       Derivatives       All derivative instruments are recognized in the financial statements and measured at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent of
holding them. We use derivative instruments to principally manage a variety of market risks. For derivatives designated as hedges of the exposure to changes in fair value of the recognized asset or liability or a firm commitment (referred to as fair
value hedges), the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. The effect of that accounting is to include in earnings the extent
to which the hedge is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. For our cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported in Shareholders  equity (as a component of
Accumulated other comprehensive loss) and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss of a cash flow hedge is
reported in earnings immediately. We also hold certain instruments for economic purposes that are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. For these derivative instruments, the changes in their fair value are also recorded in earnings as Other
income, net.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

    Aircraft Valuation        Used aircraft
under trade-in commitments and aircraft under repurchase commitments  In conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft), we have entered into specified-price trade-in commitments with certain
customers that give them the right to trade in used aircraft upon the purchase of Sale Aircraft. Additionally, we have entered into contingent repurchase commitments with certain customers wherein we agree to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a
specified price, generally ten years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft. If we execute an agreement for the sale
of additional new aircraft, and if the customer exercises its right to sell the Sale Aircraft to us, a contingent repurchase commitment would become a trade-in commitment. Our historical experience is that no contingent repurchase agreements have
become trade-in commitments.      All trade-in commitments at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are solely attributable to Sale Aircraft and did not originate from
contingent repurchase agreements. Exposure related to trade-in commitments may take the form of:       

(1)  
     
  Adjustments to revenue for the difference between the contractual trade-in price in the definitive agreement and our best estimate of the fair value of the trade-in aircraft as of the date of
such agreement, which would be recorded in Inventory and recognized upon delivery of the Sale Aircraft, and/or         

(2)  
     
  Charges to cost of products for adverse changes in the fair value of trade-in aircraft that occur subsequent to signing of a definitive agreement for Sale Aircraft but prior to the purchase
of the used trade-in aircraft. Estimates based on current aircraft values would be included in Accounts payable and other liabilities.        The fair value
of trade-in aircraft is determined using aircraft specific data such as model, age and condition, market conditions for specific aircraft and similar models, and multiple valuation sources. This process uses our assessment of the market for each
trade-in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are several possible markets in which we continually pursue opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include, but are not limited to, the
resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long-term storage; the leasing market, with the potential for refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customer s requirements; or the scrap market. Trade-in aircraft valuation varies
significantly depending on which market we determine is most likely for each aircraft. On a quarterly basis, we update our valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each aircraft into a market. This quarterly
valuation process yields results that are typically lower than residual value estimates by independent sources and tends to more accurately reflect results upon the actual placement of the aircraft.      Used aircraft acquired by the Commercial Airplanes segment are included in Inventories at the lower of cost or market as it is our intent to sell these assets. To mitigate costs
and enhance marketability, aircraft may be placed on operating lease. While on operating lease, the assets are included in Customer financing, however, the valuation continues to be based on the lower of cost or market. The lower of cost or market
assessment is performed quarterly using the process described above.       Asset valuation for assets under operating lease, assets held for sale or re-lease and
collateral underlying receivables  Customer financing includes operating lease equipment, notes receivables, and sales-type/financing leases. Sales-type/financing leases are treated as receivables, and allowances for losses are established as
necessary.      We assess the fair value of the assets we own, including equipment under operating leases, assets held for sale or re-lease, and collateral underlying
receivables, to determine if their fair values are less  
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

than the related assets  carrying values. Differences between carrying values and fair values of finance leases and notes and other receivables, as determined by
collateral value, are considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables.      We use a median calculated from published collateral values from multiple
third-party aircraft value publications based on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances, we apply judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft or equipment, usually when the
features or use of the aircraft vary significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications.       Impairment review for assets under
operating leases and held for sale or re-lease  We evaluate for impairment assets under operating lease or assets held for sale or re-lease when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the expected undiscounted cash flow from the asset
may be less than the carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow including our intentions for how long we will hold an asset subject to operating lease before it is sold, the expected future lease
rates, lease terms, residual value of the asset, periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset. We state assets held for sale at the
lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.      When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment expense recorded is
the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.       Allowance for losses on receivables  We record the potential impairment of receivables in
our portfolio in a valuation account, the balance of which is an accounting estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the receivables portfolio. The allowance for losses on receivables relates to two components of receivables:
(a) specifically identified receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment and (b) all other receivables.      We determine a receivable is
impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the receivable agreement, without regard to any subsequent restructurings. Factors
considered in assessing collectibility include, but are not limited to, a customer s extended delinquency, requests for restructuring and filings for bankruptcy. We determine a specific impairment allowance based on the difference between the
carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair value of the related collateral.      We review the adequacy of the allowance attributable to the remaining
receivables (after excluding receivables subject to a specific impairment allowance) by assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable cumulative default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying
value of the receivable over the fair value of the related collateral. A receivable with an estimated fair value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable cumulative default rate is determined using
two components: customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining contract term. Credit ratings are determined for each customer in the portfolio. Those ratings are updated based upon public information and information obtained directly from
our customers.      We have entered into agreements with certain customers that would entitle us to look beyond the specific collateral underlying the receivable for
purposes of determining the collateral exposure as described above. Should the proceeds from the sale of the underlying collateral asset resulting from a default condition be insufficient to cover the carrying value of our receivable (creating a
shortfall condition), these agreements would, for example, permit us to take the actions necessary to sell or retain certain other assets in which the customer has an equity interest and use the proceeds to cover the shortfall.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   Each quarter we review customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for different rating categories, and
multiple third party aircraft value publications as a basis to validate the reasonableness of the allowance for losses on receivables. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from estimates or that the consideration of these
factors in the future will not result in an increase or decrease to the allowance for losses on receivables.       Supplier Penalties       We record an accrual for supplier penalties when an event occurs that makes it probable that a supplier penalty will be incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Until an
event occurs, we fully anticipate accepting all products procured under production-related contracts.       Guarantees       We account for guarantees in accordance with FIN 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness
of Others . We record a liability in Accounts payable and other liabilities for the fair value of guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002. For a residual value guarantee where we received a cash premium, the liability
is equal to the cash premium received at the guarantee s inception. For credit and performance guarantees, the liability is equal to the present value of the expected loss. We determine the expected loss by multiplying the creditor s
default rate by the guarantee amount reduced by the expected recovery, if applicable, for each future period the credit or performance guarantee will be outstanding. If at inception of a guarantee, we determine there is a probable related contingent
loss, we will recognize a liability for the greater of (a) the fair value of the guarantee as described above or (b) the probable contingent loss amount.       Note 2   Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles       Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:       

1      
     
    Effective January 1, 2008 and 2007, certain programs were realigned among IDS segments. Prior year amounts have been recast for
segment realignments.      

2      
     
    On September 20, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Aviall, Inc. (Aviall) for $1,780. The acquisition of
Aviall was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price was allocated to the net assets acquired based on their fair values and finalized in the fourth quarter of 2006.      

3      
     
    The increase in goodwill is primarily the result of nine acquisitions during 2008. The purchase price allocations for five
acquisitions were finalized during 2008. The remaining four acquisitions  
          
   67   

Table of Contents  

closed during the fourth quarter of 2008. Given the recent acquisition dates, management has not yet completed its final fair value assessment and expects to complete
the allocation process in the first and second quarters of 2009.         As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets
with carrying amounts of $499 relating to tradenames.      Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008
and 2007 was $166 and $152. Estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years are as follows: 2009   $235; 2010   $216; 2011   $172; 2012   $159 and 2013   $140.      The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization of our other acquired finite-lived intangible assets were as follows at December 31:       
    Acquired finite-lived intangibles of $275 and $342 remain unpaid as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.       Note 3   Earnings Per Share       The weighted-average number of shares outstanding used
to compute earnings per share are as follows:       
    The numerator used to compute diluted earnings per share is as follows:       
    Expense related to diluted shares in the amount of $2 and $27 in 2007 and 2006 represented mark-to-market adjustment of
vested performance shares to employees terminated as of December 31, 2005.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by the sum of (1) net earnings less declared dividends and dividend equivalents related
to share-based compensation divided by the basic weighted average shares outstanding and (2) declared dividends and dividend equivalents related to share-based compensation divided by the weighted average shares outstanding.      The weighted-average number of shares outstanding, included in the table below, is excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the average market price did
not exceed the exercise/threshold price. However, these shares may be dilutive potential common shares in the future.       
     Note 4   Income Taxes       The
components of earnings before income taxes were:       
    Income tax expense/(benefit) consisted of the following:       
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

   The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% to our recorded income tax expense/(benefit):
      
    Significant components of our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, at December 31 were as follows:

Net deferred tax assets at December 31 were as follows:   
   
    We recorded net deferred tax liabilities of $73 and $11 in 2008 and 2007, which were primarily due to acquisitions.
     As required under SFAS 123R, deferred tax liabilities of $97 and $79 were reclassified to Additional paid-in capital in 2008 and 2007. This represents the tax
effect of the net excess tax pool created during 2008 and 2007 due to share awards paid with a fair market value in excess of the book accrual for those awards.         

   70   

Table of Contents  

   Included in the net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are deferred tax assets in the amounts of $8,134 and
$3,169 related to other comprehensive income.      Net income tax payments were $599, $711 and $28 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      We have provided for U.S. deferred income taxes and foreign withholding tax in the amount of $55 on undistributed earnings not considered permanently reinvested in our non-U.S.
subsidiaries. We have not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding tax on the remainder of undistributed earnings from our non-U.S. subsidiaries because such earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested and it is not
practicable to estimate the amount of tax that may be payable upon distribution.       FASB Interpretation No. 48       Upon adoption of FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007, we began reporting income tax related interest income in income tax expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In
prior periods, such interest income was reported in Other income. Within the Consolidated Statements of Operations, Other income included interest of $16 in 2006 related to federal income tax settlements for prior years. Penalties and tax-related
interest expense are reported as a component of Income tax expense. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the amount of accrued income tax-related interest and penalties included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was as follows:
interest of $215 and $143, and penalties of $14 and $17. The amounts of interest and penalties accrued during 2008 were $43 and $(3), respectively.      We are subject
to examination in the U.S. federal tax jurisdiction for the 1998-2008 tax years. We are also subject to examination in major state and foreign jurisdictions for the 2001-2008 tax years, for which no individually material unrecognized tax benefits
exist. We have filed appeals with the IRS for the 1998-2003 tax years. We believe appropriate provisions for all outstanding issues have been made for all jurisdictions and all open years.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    As of December 31 and January 1, 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1,453 and $1,272, of
which $1,171 and $1,032 would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized. These amounts are primarily associated with U.S. federal tax issues such as the tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI) tax rules,
the amount of research and development tax credits claimed, U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, and valuation issues regarding charitable contributions claimed. Also included in these amounts are accruals for domestic state tax issues such as the
allocation of income among various state tax jurisdictions and the amount of state tax credits claimed.      It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we
will resolve some of the matters presently under consideration for 1998-2006 with the IRS which may increase or decrease unrecognized tax  
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

benefits. Settlement of unrecognized tax benefits that effect the effective tax rate could increase earnings in an amount ranging from $0 to $500 based on current
estimates. Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are subject to significant uncertainty.       Note 5   Accounts Receivable       Accounts receivable at December 31 consisted of the following:       
     
    The following table summarizes our
accounts receivable under long-term contracts that were not billable or related to outstanding claims as of December 31:       
    Unbillable receivables on long-term contracts arise when the sales or revenues based on performance attainment, though
appropriately recognized, cannot be billed yet under terms of the contract as of the balance sheet date. Accounts receivable related to claims are items that we believe are earned, but are subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or
ultimate realization. Accounts receivable, other than those described above, expected to be collected after one year are not material.       Note 6   Inventories
      Inventories at December 31 consisted of the following:       
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Delta launch program inventories that will be sold at cost to United Launch Alliance (ULA) under an inventory supply agreement that
terminates on March 31, 2021 are included in long-term contracts in progress inventories. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the inventory balance was $1,822 and $1,827. As part of its integration ULA is continuing to assess
the future of the Delta II program. Future decisions regarding the Delta II program could reduce our earnings by up to $90 (see Note 12).      As a normal course of our
Commercial Airplanes segment production process, our inventory may include a small quantity of airplanes that are completed but unsold. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the value of completed but unsold aircraft in inventory was insignificant.
Inventory balances included $235 and $234 subject to claims or other uncertainties relating to the A-12 program as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 (See Note 20).      Commercial aircraft program inventory includes amounts credited in cash or other consideration (early issued sales consideration), to airline customers totaling $1,271 and $1,355 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.
     Deferred production costs represent commercial aircraft programs production costs incurred on in-process and delivered units in excess of the estimated average cost
of such units. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance of deferred production costs and unamortized tooling related to commercial aircraft programs in production, except the 777 program, was insignificant relative to the programs 
balance-to-go estimates. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, all significant excess deferred production costs or unamortized tooling costs are recoverable from existing firm orders for the 777 program. The deferred production costs and
unamortized tooling for the 777 program are summarized in the following table:       
     Note 7   Business Shutdowns       During August 2006, we decided that we would exit the Connexion by Boeing high speed broadband communications business. Our decision resulted in a pre-tax charge of $320, which has been recognized in Loss/(gain) on dispositions/business
shutdown, net during 2006 as outlined below:       

1      
     
    Included termination fees associated with operating leases as well as supplier and customer costs      

2      
     
    Primarily included write-off of capital lease assets      

3      
     
    Primarily early terminations of capital lease obligations         As of December 31, 2006, $52 was recorded in Accounts payable and other liabilities related to contract termination costs, which was substantially paid out during 2007 to
complete the business shutdown. The exit of the Connexion by Boeing business resulted in cash expenditures of $177 during 2006. We have not reached final settlements with all customers or suppliers. We do not believe the final settlements will have
a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

    Note 8   Customer Financing       Customer financing at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    The components of investment in sales-type/finance leases at December 31 were as follows:       
    Aircraft financing operating lease equipment primarily includes jet and commuter aircraft. At December 31, 2008 and
2007, aircraft financing operating lease equipment included $685 of equipment available for sale or re-lease and $86 of equipment available for re-lease. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had firm lease commitments for $305 and $86 of this
equipment.      When our Commercial Airplanes segment is unable to immediately sell used aircraft, it may place the aircraft under an operating lease. It may also
provide customer financing with a note receivable. The carrying amount of the Commercial Airplanes segment used aircraft under operating leases and notes receivable included as a component of customer financing totaled $232 and $156 as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007.      Impaired receivables and the allowance for losses on those receivables consisted of the following at December 31:   
   
    The average recorded investment in impaired receivables as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, was $197, $589, and
$1,191, respectively. Income recognition is generally suspended for receivables at the date full recovery of income and principal becomes doubtful. Income is recognized when receivables become contractually current and performance is demonstrated by
the customer. Interest income recognized on such receivables was $14, $50, and $104 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

   The change in the allowance for losses on receivables for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, consisted of the
following:       
    Aircraft financing is collateralized by security in the related asset. The value of the collateral is closely tied to
commercial airline performance and may be subject to reduced valuation with market decline. Our financing portfolio has a concentration of various model aircraft. Aircraft financing related to major aircraft concentrations at December 31 were
as follows:       

*  
  Out of production aircraft        In September 2008, we agreed to a restructuring of lease terms
with Midwest, under which Midwest returned 16 of 25 717 aircraft. Additionally, the agreement provides us with options to require Midwest to return the remaining nine 717 aircraft with varying notice periods. We do not expect that the return of
these aircraft as a result of this restructuring will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.      We recorded charges
related to customer financing asset impairment in operating earnings, primarily as a result of declines in projected future cash flows. These charges for the years ended December 31 were as follows:       
       
   75   

Table of Contents  

   Scheduled receipts on customer financing are as follows:       
    Customer financing assets leased under capital leases and subleased to others totaled $43 at December 31, 2007. Such
amounts were not significant in 2008.       Note 9   Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    Depreciation expense was $1,013, $978 and $1,058 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Interest capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $99, $117 and $110, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $334 and $314 of operating lease properties, net of $242 and $202 of accumulated
depreciation.      Rental expense for leased properties was $426, $411 and $388, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For the same
periods, these expenses, substantially all minimum rentals, were net of sublease income of $14, $26, and $18. At December 31, 2008, minimum rental payments under capital leases aggregated $10, and payments due under capital leases during the
next five years are not material. Minimum rental payments under operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more aggregated $1,154, net of sublease payments of $17, at December 31, 2008. Payments, net of sublease amounts,
due under operating leases during the next five years are as follows:       
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

    Note 10   Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments       Our investments, which are recorded in either Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments or Investments, consisted of the following at December 31:       
     Available-For-Sale Investments       Our investments in available-for-sale debt and equity securities consisted of the following at December 31:       

(1)      
     
    At December 31, 2008, debt securities with estimated fair values of $44 and cost of $61 have been in a continuous unrealized
loss position for 12 months or longer. We believe that the unrealized losses are not other-than-temporary. We do not have a foreseeable need to liquidate the portfolio and anticipate recovering the full value of the securities either as market
conditions improve, or as the securities mature.            
   77   

Table of Contents  

   The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2008, were as follows:       
    Supplemental information about gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities for the years
ended December 31, are as follows:       
     Held-To-Maturity Investments       Our
investments in held-to-maturity securities consisted of commercial paper with maturities of less than one year and are recorded at their amortized cost of $2,301 as of December 31, 2007, which approximated their fair value.       Equity Method Investments       Our effective ownership percentages and balances of equity
method investments consisted of the following as of December 31:       

(1)      
     
    Credit balances are a result of our proportionate share of the joint venture s pension and postretirement related adjustments
which reduce the carrying value of the investment.         On December 1, 2006, we entered into a transaction with Lockheed Martin Corporation
(Lockheed) to create a 50/50 joint venture named United Launch Alliance L.L.C. (ULA). ULA combines the production, engineering, test and launch operations associated with U.S. government launches of Boeing Delta and Lockheed Atlas rockets. ULA
conducted 7, 13 and one successful launches for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      On July 24, 2007, we and Lockheed reached
an agreement with respect to resolution of the final working capital and the value of the launch vehicle support contracts that each party contributed to ULA. Effective August 15, 2007, the parties received all necessary approvals pursuant to
the terms of the Consent Order with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the terms of the agreement,  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

which resulted in additional contributions from both parties with Boeing agreeing to contribute an additional $97. Our additional contribution liability will be offset
by future payments from ULA under the Inventory Supply Agreement. See Note 12.      The Sea Launch venture, in which we are a 40% partner with RSC Energia of Russia
(25%), Aker ASA of Norway (20%), PO Yuzhmash (10%) and SDO Yuzhnoye (5%) of the Ukraine, provides ocean-based launch services to commercial satellite customers. The venture conducted five, zero and five successful launches for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. We have financial exposure with respect to the venture, which relates to guarantees provided by us to certain Sea Launch creditors and financial exposure related to advances and other
assets reflected in the consolidated financial statements.      We suspended recording equity losses after writing our investment in and direct loans to Sea Launch down
to zero in 2001 and accruing our obligation for third-party guarantees on Sea Launch indebtedness. We are not obligated to provide any further financial support to the Sea Launch venture. However, in the event that we do extend additional financial
support to Sea Launch in the future, we will recognize suspended losses as appropriate. In addition, we continue to look at alternative capital structures for the venture.       Note 11   Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies        Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities       Accounts payable and other liabilities at December 31 consisted of the following:       
     
    Payments associated with these liabilities may occur in periods significantly beyond the next twelve months. Accounts payable included $157
and $265 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, attributable to checks written but not yet cleared by the bank.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

    Environmental Matters       At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the aggregate amount of liabilities recorded relative to environmental matters were as follows:       
    The liabilities recorded represent our best estimate of costs expected to be incurred to remediate, operate, and maintain
sites over periods of up to 30 years. Although not considered probable, it is reasonably possible that we may incur additional charges because of regulatory complexities, higher than expected costs and the risk of unidentified contamination. As part
of our estimating process, we develop a range of reasonably possible alternate scenarios which include highest cost estimates for all remediation sites based on our experience and existing laws and regulations. At December 31, 2008 and 2007 our
reasonably possible highest cost estimate for all remediation sites exceeded our recorded liabilities by $1,206 and $1,191, excluding the impacts of any potential recoveries.       Product Warranties       We provide product warranties in conjunction with certain product sales. The majority of our warranties are issued by
our Commercial Airplanes segment. Generally, aircraft sales are accompanied by a three to four-year standard warranty for systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by us or manufactured to certain standards under our
authorization. These warranties are included in the programs  estimate at completion. Additionally, on occasion we have made commitments beyond the standard warranty obligation to correct fleet- wide major warranty issues of a particular model.
These costs are expensed as incurred. These warranties cover factors such as non-conformance to specifications and defects in material and design. Warranties issued by our IDS segments principally relate to sales of military aircraft and weapons
hardware and are included in the contract cost estimates. These sales are generally accompanied by a six to twelve-month warranty period and cover systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by us to certain contractual
specifications. These warranties cover factors such as non-conformance to specifications and defects in material and workmanship.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

   Estimated costs related to standard warranties are recorded in the period in which the related product sales occur. The warranty
liability recorded at each balance sheet date reflects the estimated number of months of warranty coverage outstanding for products delivered times the average of historical monthly warranty payments, as well as additional amounts for certain major
warranty issues that exceed a normal claims level. Estimated costs of these additional warranty issues are considered changes to the initial liability estimate. The following table summarizes product warranty activity recorded for the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007.       
     Discontinued Operations       As part
of the 2004 purchase and sale agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation related to the sale of BCC s Commercial Financial Services business, BCC is involved in a loss sharing arrangement for losses on transferred portfolio assets,
such as certain events of default and repossession. As of December 31, 2008, our maximum exposure to loss associated with the loss sharing arrangement was $232. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accrued liability under the loss sharing
arrangement was $39 and $59.       Acquisition       As part of an acquisition in
2008, we may be required to pay up to an additional $50 of purchase price for contingent consideration. The additional consideration is due in the event specified targets are achieved over a three year period and will be recorded if the targets are
met.       Future Lease Commitments       As of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
future lease commitments on aircraft and other commitments not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position totaled $197 and $240. These lease commitments extend through 2020, and our intent is to recover these lease commitments
through sublease arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, the future lease commitments on aircraft for each of the next five years were as follows: $20 in 2009, $18 in 2010, $19 in 2011, $19 in 2012, and $19 in 2013. As of December 31, 2008
and 2007, Accounts payable and other liabilities included $32 and $42 attributable to adverse commitments under these lease arrangements.       Purchase Obligations
      As of December 31, 2008, we had $114,659 of production related purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Such
obligations include agreements for production goods, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts, property, plant and equipment, inventory procurement contracts, and other miscellaneous production related obligations. As of  
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2008, the amounts of production related purchase obligations for each of the next five years were as follows: $33,960 in 2009, $24,520 in 2010,
$18,447 in 2011, $16,951 in 2012, and $10,517 in 2013.       Commercial Aircraft Commitments       In conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft, we have entered into specified-price trade-in commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in their used aircraft for the
purchase of Sale Aircraft. The total contractual trade-in value was $1,045 and $924 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. We anticipate that a significant portion of these commitments will not be exercised by customers. There were no probable
contractual trade-in commitments as of December 31, 2008. These trade-in commitment agreements have expiration dates from 2010 through 2023.       Potential C-17
Shut-Down       As of December 31, 2008, we delivered 182 of the 190 C-17 aircraft ordered by the U.S. Air Force (USAF), with final deliveries scheduled for 2009.
In June 2007 and April 2008, we directed key suppliers to begin work on 10 and 20 aircraft, respectively, beyond the 190 to support potential Fiscal Year 2008 (FY08) and Fiscal Year 2009 (FY09) orders and anticipated international orders. Our
authorizations allowed us to maintain the current C-17 production rate and to provide for cost-effective acquisition of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2008, inventory expenditures and potential termination liabilities to suppliers, primarily
related to the anticipated FY08 USAF order, totaled approximately $720. In June 2008, the FY08 supplemental defense spending bill, signed by the President, included funding for up to an additional 15 C-17 aircraft. The USAF placed these aircraft on
contract on February 6, 2009. There continues to be substantial interest in purchasing additional C-17 aircraft from both the U.S. government and international customers. The National Defense Authorization Act signed into law by the President
authorizes the procurement of six C-17s in FY09. However, funding would need to be addressed in a future defense appropriations bill. Should additional orders not materialize, it is reasonably possible that we will decide in 2009 to complete
production of the C-17. We are still evaluating the full financial impact of a potential production shut-down, including any recovery that would be available from the government. Such recovery from the government would not include the costs incurred
by us resulting from our direction to key suppliers to begin working on aircraft beyond the 190 ordered by the USAF.       Financing Commitments       Financing commitments totaled $10,145 and $8,350 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. We anticipate that a significant portion of these commitments will not be exercised by the
customers as we continue to work with third party financiers to provide alternative financing to customers. However, there can be no assurances given the current capital market disruptions that we will not be required to fund greater amounts than
historically required.      In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed Martin Corporation each committed to provide up to $25 in additional capital
contributions and we each have agreed to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 to support its working capital requirements during the 5 year period following December 1, 2006. ULA did not request any funds under the line of credit as of
December 31, 2008.      ULA made a $100 earnings distribution to each partner during the fourth quarter of 2008. In conjunction with the distribution, we and
Lockheed committed to provide ULA with additional capital contributions up to the amount of such distributions in the event ULA does not have sufficient funds to make a required payment to us under an inventory supply agreement. See Note 6.
        
   82   

Table of Contents  

   We have entered into standby letters of credit agreements and surety bonds with financial institutions primarily relating to the
guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit agreements and surety bonds aggregated approximately $5,763 and $4,973 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.       Satellites       In certain launch and satellite sales contracts, we include provisions that
specify that we bear risk of loss associated with the launch phase through acceptance in orbit by the customer. We have historically purchased insurance to cover these exposures when allowed under the terms of the contract and when economically
advisable. The current insurance market reflects high premium rates and also suffers from a lack of capacity to handle all insurance requirements. We make decisions on the procurement of insurance based on our analysis of risk. There is a
contractual launch scheduled for early 2009 and a second scheduled for 2010 for which full insurance coverage may not be available or, if available, could be prohibitively expensive. We will continue to review this risk. We estimate that the
potential uninsured amount for each launch could approach $350 depending on the nature of the uninsured event.       Company Owned Life Insurance       McDonnell Douglas Corporation insured its executives with Company Owned Life Insurance (COLI), which are life insurance policies with a cash surrender value. Although we do not use
COLI currently, these obligations from the merger with McDonnell Douglas are still a commitment at this time. We have loans in place to cover costs paid or incurred to carry the underlying life insurance policies. As of December 31, 2008 and
2007, the cash surrender value was $331 and $310 and the total loans were $317 and $298. As we have the right to offset the loans against the cash surrender value of the policies, we present the net asset in Other assets on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.       Note 12   Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk       We enter into arrangements with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business, primarily in the form of guarantees.       Third-Party Guarantees       The following tables provide quantitative data regarding our
third-party guarantees. The maximum potential payments represent a  worst-case scenario,  and do not necessarily reflect our expected results. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we
could liquidate or receive from other parties to offset our payments under guarantees.       
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

*  
     
  Amounts included in Accounts payable and other liabilities     
     Contingent Repurchase Commitments  We have entered into contingent repurchase commitments
with certain customers in conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft). Under these commitments, we agreed to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a specified price, generally ten years after delivery of
the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft.       Indemnifications to ULA  We agreed to indemnify ULA against potential losses that ULA may incur from certain contracts contributed by us. In the event ULA is unable to obtain certain additional contract pricing to which we believe ULA
is entitled, we will be responsible for any shortfall and may record up to $386 in pre-tax losses. The term of the indemnification is tied to the resolution of this matter with the customer.      We agreed to indemnify ULA in the event that $1,360 of Delta launch program inventories included in contributed assets and $1,860 of Delta program inventories subject to an
inventory supply agreement are not recoverable from existing and future orders. The term of the inventory indemnification extends to December 31, 2020. Since inception, ULA sold $548 of inventories that were contributed by us.       Residual Value Guarantees  We have issued various residual value guarantees principally to facilitate the sale of certain commercial aircraft. Under these guarantees, we are
obligated to make payments to the guaranteed party if the related aircraft or equipment fair values fall below a specified amount at a future time. These obligations are collateralized principally by commercial aircraft and expire within the next 10
years.       Credit Guarantees Related to the Sea Launch Venture  We issued credit guarantees to creditors of the Sea Launch venture, of which we are a 40% partner,
to assist the venture in obtaining financing. Under these credit guarantees, we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that Sea Launch does not make its loan payments. We have substantive guarantees from the other venture
partners, who are obligated to reimburse us for their share (in proportion to their Sea Launch ownership percentages) of any guarantee payment we may make related to the Sea Launch obligations. These guarantees expire within the next 7 years.
      Other Credit Guarantees  We have issued credit guarantees, principally to facilitate the sale and/or financing of commercial aircraft. Under these
arrangements, we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that lease or loan payments are not made by the original lessee or debtor or certain specified services are not performed. A substantial portion of these guarantees
have  
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

been extended on behalf of original lessees or debtors with less than investment-grade credit. Our commercial aircraft credit-related guarantees are collateralized by
the underlying commercial aircraft and certain other assets. Current outstanding credit guarantees expire within the next 12 years.       Other Indemnifications  In
conjunction with our sales of the Electron Dynamic Devices, Inc. and Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power businesses and the sale of our Commercial Airplanes facilities in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma in 2005, we provided
indemnifications to the buyers relating to pre-closing environmental contamination and certain other items. The terms of the indemnifications are indefinite. As it is impossible to assess whether there will be damages in the future or the amounts
thereof (if any), we cannot estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments under these guarantees. Therefore, no liability has been recorded.       Industrial Revenue Bonds       Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRBs) issued by the City of Wichita are used to finance the purchase and/or construction of real
and personal property at our Wichita site. Tax benefits associated with IRBs include a ten-year property tax abatement and a sales tax exemption from the Kansas Department of Revenue. We record the property on our Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position, along with a capital lease obligation to repay the proceeds of the IRB. We have also purchased the IRBs and therefore are the bondholders as well as the borrower/lessee of the property purchased with the IRB proceeds.   
  The capital lease obligation and IRB asset are recorded net in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position pursuant to FIN 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
Contracts . As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the assets and liabilities associated with the City of Wichita IRBs were $887 and $1,217.       Note 13  
Debt       Total debt interest incurred, including amounts capitalized, was $520, $591, and $657 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Interest expense recorded by BCC is reflected as a separate line item on our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and is included in earnings from operations. Total Company interest payments were $493, $616, and $657 for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      We have $3,000 currently available under credit line agreements. We have given BCC exclusive access to
$1,500 under these arrangements. We continue to be in full compliance with all covenants contained in our debt or credit facility agreements, including those at BCC.      On October 30, 2008, BCC filed a public shelf registration for up to $5,000 of debt securities with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that became effective on November 12, 2008. The entire amount remains available for
potential debt issuance. The availability of funding under BCC s shelf registration is dependent on investor demand and market conditions.      Short-term debt and
current portion of long-term debt at December 31, consisted of the following:       
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

   Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    At December 31, 2008, $136 of BCC debt was collateralized by portfolio assets and underlying equipment totaling $213.
The debt consists of the 2.58% to 5.79% notes due through 2015.      Maturities of long-term debt for the next five years are as follows:       
     Note 14   Postretirement Plans       We have various pension plans covering substantially all employees. We fund all our major pension plans through trusts. Pension assets are placed in trust solely for the benefit of the plans  participants, and are structured to
maintain liquidity that is sufficient to pay benefit obligations as well as to keep pace over the long term with the growth of obligations for future benefit payments.       
  
   86   

Table of Contents  

   We also have postretirement benefits other than pensions which consist principally of health care coverage for eligible retirees
and qualifying dependents, and to a lesser extent, life insurance to certain groups of retirees. Retiree health care is provided principally until age 65 for approximately half those retirees who are eligible for health care coverage. Certain
employee groups, including employees covered by most United Auto Workers bargaining agreements, are provided lifetime health care coverage.      The funded status of the
plans is measured as the difference between the plan assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). We have recognized the aggregate of all overfunded plans in Pension plan assets, net and the aggregate of all underfunded plans in
either Accrued retiree health care or Accrued pension plan liability, net. The portion of the amount by which the actuarial present value of benefits included in the PBO exceeds the fair value of plan assets, payable in the next 12 months, is
reflected in Accounts payable and other liabilities.      Effective December 31, 2008, SFAS No. 158 requires us to measure plan assets and benefit obligations
at fiscal year end. We previously performed this measurement at September 30 of each year. Beginning in fourth quarter of 2007 in accordance with this Standard, we eliminated the use of a three-month lag period when recognizing the impact of
curtailments or settlements and, instead, recognize these amounts in the period in which they occur. As a result of implementing the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158, we recorded an additional quarter of pension and other
postretirement benefit (OPB) cost as of January 1, 2008 as a $178 decrease to Retained earnings and a $92 decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive loss, which resulted in a net decrease of $86 to Shareholders  equity. The provisions of
SFAS No. 158 do not permit retrospective application.      The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:       
    A portion of net periodic benefit cost is allocated to production as product costs and may remain in inventory at the end of
each reporting period.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables show changes in the benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of both pensions and OPB. Benefit
obligation balances presented below reflect the PBO for our pension plans, and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) for our OPB plans.       
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

   Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2008 are as follows:       
    The estimated amount that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost during
the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all pension plans was $45,218 and $41,818 at December 31, 2008 and
September 30, 2007. Each of our eight major pension plans have ABOs that exceed plan assets at December 31, 2008. Key information for all plans with ABO in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007 is
as follows:       
    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reduced our APBO by $491 at December 31, 2008
and $516 at September 30, 2007. These reductions/actuarial gains are amortized over the expected average future service of current employees.       Assumptions
       
    The discount rate for each pension plan is determined by discounting the plans  expected future benefit payments using
a yield curve developed from high quality bonds that are rated as Aa or better by Moody s as of the measurement date. The yield curve is fitted to yields developed from bonds at various maturity points. Bonds with the ten percent highest and
the ten percent lowest yields are omitted. A portfolio of about 300 bonds is used to construct the yield curve. Since corporate bond yields are generally not available at maturities beyond 30 years, it is assumed that spot rates will remain level
beyond that 30-year point. The present value of each plan s benefits is calculated by applying the spot/discount rates to projected benefit cash flows. All bonds are U.S. issues, with a minimum outstanding of $50.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   The disclosed rate is the average rate for all the plans, weighted by the projected benefit obligation. As of December 31,
2008, the weighted average was 6.10%, and the rates for individual plans ranged from 4.25% to 6.60%. As of September 30, 2007, the weighted average was 6.20%, and the rates for individual plans ranged from 5.30% to 6.40%.      The pension fund s expected return on assets assumption is derived from a review of actual historical returns achieved by the pension trust and anticipated future long-term
performance of individual asset classes with consideration given to the related investment strategy. While the study gives appropriate consideration to recent trust performance and historical returns, the assumption represents a long-term
prospective return. The expected return on plan assets determined on each measurement date is used to calculate the net periodic benefit cost/(income) for the upcoming plan year.       
    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. To
determine the health care cost trend rates we look at a combination of information including ongoing claims cost monitoring, annual statistical analyses of claims data, reconciliation of forecast claims against actual claims, review of trend
assumptions of other plan sponsors and national health trends, and adjustments for plan design changes, workforce changes, and changes in plan participant behavior. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effect:       

Increase  
      
  Decrease  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  640  
      
  $  
  (567  
  )   
 
    Effect on total of service and interest cost   

56  

(49  
  )   

Market-Related Value of Assets       The expected return on plan assets is determined based on the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the market-related value of plan assets (MRVA). Since our adoption of FAS 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions ,
in 1987, we have determined the MRVA based on a five-year moving average of plan assets. As of December 31, 2008, the MRVA is approximately $7,500 greater than the fair market value of assets.       Plan Assets       Pension assets totaled $40,597 and $50,439 at December 31, 2008 and
September 30, 2007. In late 2006, the Company decided to modify the pension asset strategy with the objective of reducing volatility relative to pension liabilities, achieving a competitive investment return, achieving diversification between
and within various asset classes, and managing other risks. In order to reduce the volatility between the value of pension assets and liabilities, the Company increased its allocation to fixed income as well as lengthened the duration of its fixed
income holdings. The allocation to alternative investments, which include private equity, real estate, real assets, hedge funds, and global strategies, was also increased in order to address the return and diversification objectives. Key risk
management areas addressed through this modified strategy include funded status risk, interest rate risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, and liquidity.       
  
   90   

Table of Contents  

   Asset allocations are monitored and rebalanced on a regular basis. Actual investment allocations vary from target allocations due
to periodic investment strategy changes, market value fluctuations, and the length of time it takes to complete investments in asset classes such as private equity, real estate, real assets, and other investments. Additionally, actual and target
allocations vary due to the timing of benefit payments or contributions made on or near the measurement date.      Pension investment managers are retained with a
specific investment role and corresponding investment guidelines. Investment managers have the ability to purchase securities on behalf of the pension fund and invest in derivatives, such as equity or bond futures, swaps, options, or currency
forwards. Derivatives generally are used to achieve the desired market exposure of a security or an index, transfer value-added performance between asset classes, achieve the desired currency exposure, adjust portfolio duration, or rebalance the
total portfolio to the target asset allocation.      The actual allocations for the pension assets at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007, and target
allocations by asset category, are as follows:       
    Equity includes domestic and international equity securities, such as common, preferred or other capital stock, as well as
equity futures, currency forwards and residual cash allocated to the equity managers. Plan assets did not include any of our common stock at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007. Equity and currency management derivatives based on net
notional amounts totaled 7.9% and 1.9% of plan assets at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007.      Debt includes domestic and international debt
securities, such as U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, corporate bonds; cash equivalents; and investments in bond derivatives such as bond futures, options, swaps and currency forwards. Bond derivatives based on net
notional amounts totaled 5.2% and 16.6% of plan assets at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007. Additionally, Debt includes  To-Be-Announced  mortgage-backed securities (TBA) and treasury forwards which have delayed, future
settlement dates. Debt included $410 and $2,478 related to TBA securities and treasury forwards at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007.      Private
equity represents private market investments which are generally limited partnerships. Real estate includes investments in private and public real estate. Real assets include investments in natural resources (such as energy and timber) and
infrastructure. Hedge funds include event driven, relative value, long-short and market neutral strategies. Global strategies seek to identify inefficiencies across various asset classes and markets, using long-short positions in physical securities
and derivatives.      We held $79 and $96 in trust fund assets for OPB plans at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2007. Most of these funds are invested in a
balanced index fund which is comprised of approximately 60% equities and 40% debt securities. The expected rate of return on these assets does not have a material effect on the net periodic benefit cost.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

   Some of our assets, primarily our alternative investments, including private equity, real estate, real assets, hedge funds, and
global strategies, do not have readily determinable market values given the specific investment structures involved and the nature of the underlying investments. For the December 31, 2008 plan asset reporting, publicly traded asset pricing was
used where possible; where it was not available, estimates were derived from both investment manager discussions that focused on the underlying fundamentals as well as an application of a public market proxy that reasonably correlated to the
applicable asset class.       Cash Flows        Contributions  Required pension
contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) as well as rules governing funding of our non-U.S. pension plans, are not expected to exceed $50 in 2009. In 2009 we expect to make contributions to our plans of approximately
$500. Because of lower than expected asset returns during 2008, the plans in aggregate are approximately $3,000 underfunded under ERISA measures, as of December 31, 2008. As a result, contributions in future years are expected to increase. We
expect to contribute approximately $15 to our OPB plans in 2009.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments  The table below reflects the total pension benefits
expected to be paid from the plans or from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants  share of the cost, which is funded by participant contributions. OPB payments reflect our portion only.       
     Termination Provisions       Certain of
the pension plans provide that, in the event there is a change in control of the Company which is not approved by the Board of Directors and the plans are terminated within five years thereafter, the assets in the plan first will be used to provide
the level of retirement benefits required by ERISA, and then any surplus will be used to fund a trust to continue present and future payments under the postretirement medical and life insurance benefits in our group insurance benefit programs.
     We have an agreement with the U.S. government with respect to certain pension plans. Under the agreement, should we terminate any of the plans under conditions in
which the plan s assets exceed that plan s obligations, the U.S. government will be entitled to a fair allocation of any of the plan s assets based on plan contributions that were reimbursed under U.S. government contracts.
      401(k) Plans       We provide certain defined contribution plans to all
eligible employees. The principal plans are the Company-sponsored 401(k) plans. The expense for these defined contribution plans was $571, $536 and $514 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

    Note 15   Share-Based Compensation and Other Compensation Arrangements        Share-Based Compensation       On May 1, 2006, the shareholders approved an amendment to
The Boeing Company 2003 Incentive Stock Plan (2003 Plan). The 2003 Plan permits awards of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock units, Performance Shares, performance units and other incentives to our
employees, officers, consultants and independent contractors. The aggregate number of shares of our stock available for issuance under the amended 2003 Plan will not exceed 60,000,000. Under the terms of the amended 2003 Plan, no more than an
aggregate of 12,000,000 shares are available for issuance as restricted stock awards.      Our 1997 Incentive Stock Plan (1997 Plan) permits the grant of stock options,
stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock awards (denominated in stock or stock units) to employees and contract employees. Under the terms of the plan, 64,000,000 shares are authorized for issuance upon exercise of options, as payment
of SARs and as restricted stock awards, of which no more than an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares are available for issuance as restricted stock awards. This authorization for issuance under the 1997 Plan terminated on April 30, 2007.   
  Shares issued as a result of stock option exercise or conversion of stock unit awards will be funded out of treasury shares except to the extent there are insufficient treasury
shares in which case new shares will be issued. We believe we currently have adequate treasury shares to meet any requirements to issue shares during 2009.      Share-based plans expense is primarily included in general and administrative expense since it is incentive compensation issued primarily to our executives. The share-based plans expense and related income tax benefit follow:       
     Adoption of SFAS No. 123R       We
early adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123R as of January 1, 2005 using the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we amortized compensation cost for share-based awards over the stated vesting period
for retirement eligible employees and, if an employee retired before the end of the vesting period, we recognized any remaining unrecognized compensation cost at the date of retirement. Had we applied the non-substantive vesting approach to awards
granted prior to 2005, compensation expense would have been $0, $6 and $50 lower for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.       Performance Shares
      Performance Shares are stock units that are convertible to common stock, on a one-to-one basis, contingent upon stock price performance. If, at any time up to
five years after award, the stock price reaches and maintains for twenty consecutive days a price equal to stated price growth targets, a stated percentage (up to 125%) of the Performance Shares awarded are vested and convertible to common stock.
        
   93   

Table of Contents  

   Cumulative stock price growth targets and vesting percentages for 2003, 2004 and 2005 awards follow:       
    Performance Shares not converted to common stock expire five years after the date of the award. Awards may vest based on
total shareholder return as follows:       

For 2004 awards, up to 125% of the award may vest based on an award formula using the total shareholder return performance relative to the S P 500.

For 2005 awards, up to 125% of the award may vest based on an award formula using the total shareholder return performance relative to the S P 100 and the five-year
Treasury Bill rate.         In the event a participant s employment terminates due to retirement, layoff, disability, or death, the participant (or
beneficiary) continues to participate in Performance Shares awards that have been outstanding for at least one year. In all other cases, participants forfeit unvested awards if their employment terminates.      Performance Shares activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:       

(Shares in thousands)    
      
  Shares  

Number of Performance Shares:   

Outstanding at beginning of year   
      
  731  

Dividend   
      
  20  

Forfeited   
      
  (4  
  )   
 
    Outstanding at end of year   
      
  747  

Outstanding at end of year not contingent on future employment   
      
  381  

The following table provides additional information regarding potentially convertible and converted or deferred Performance
Shares.       
    The above tables do not include the maximum number of shares contingently issuable under the Plans. Additional shares of
1,802,390 could be transferred in and converted or deferred if Performance Share vestings exceed 100%. Additionally, future deferred vestings that are eligible for the 25% matching contribution could result in the issuance of an additional 505,198
shares.      For years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded $0, $54 and $120, respectively, to accelerate the amortization of compensation cost for
those Performance Shares converted to common stock or deferred as stock or cash at the employees  election.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

   Performance Shares granted in 2005 were measured on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model. Additionally, certain Performance
Shares that have a cash settlement, are re-measured each balance sheet date using a Monte Carlo model and are recalculated as a liability. Liability awards vesting and transferred into deferred compensation plans totaled $0, $48 and $98 for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The key assumptions used for valuing Performance Shares in 2008, 2007 and 2006 follow:       
    Weighted average expected volatility is based on recent volatility levels implied by actively traded option contracts on our
common stock and the historical volatility levels on our common stock. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments. Risk free interest rate reflects the yield on the zero coupon U.S. Treasury based on the Performance
Shares  remaining contractual term. Stock beta is a measure of how our stock price moves relative to the stock market as a whole. The fair value of the 2005 Performance Shares is amortized over the expected term of each award. The expected term
of 1 to 4 years for each award granted is derived from the output of the valuation model and represents the median time required to satisfy the conditions of the award, adjusted for the effect of retiree eligible participants. Each price growth
target has a different expected term, resulting in the range of values provided.      At December 31, 2008, there was $6 of unrecognized compensation cost related
to the Performance Share plan which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 15.3 years.       Stock Options       Options have been granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. For stock options
issued prior to 2006, vesting is generally over a five-year service period with portions of a grant becoming exercisable at one year, three years and five years after the date of grant. In the event an employee has a termination of employment due to
retirement, layoff, disability or death, the employee (or beneficiary) immediately vests in grants that have been outstanding for at least one year.      On
February 25, 2008, February 26, 2007 and February 27, 2006, we granted to our executives 6,411,300, 5,334,700 and 6,361,100 options, respectively, with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of
grant. The stock options vest over a period of three years, with 34% vesting after the first year, 33% vesting after the second year and the remaining 33% vesting after the third year. The options expire 10 years after the date of grant. If an
executive terminates employment for any reason, the non-vested portion of the stock option will not vest and all rights to the non-vested portion will terminate completely.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

   The activity of stock options issued to directors, officers, and other employees for the year ended December 31, 2008 is as
follows:       
    The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $22, $192 and $216 during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively. Cash received from options exercised for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $44, $209 and $294 with a related tax benefit of $6, $65 and $52, respectively, derived from the compensation deductions
resulting from these option exercises. At December 31, 2008, there was $134 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the Stock Option plan which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. The total fair
value of stock options vested during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $82, $43 and $8, respectively.      The fair value of stock-based
compensation awards were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:       
    The expected volatility of the stock options is based on a combination of our historical stock volatility and the volatility
levels implied on the grant date by actively traded option contracts on our common stock. We determined the expected term of the stock option grants to be 6 years, calculated using the  simplified  method in accordance with the SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin 107,  Valuation of Share-Based Payment Arrangements for Public Companies . We used the  simplified  method since we changed the vesting terms, tax treatment and the recipients of our stock options beginning in 2006
such that we believe our historical data no longer provides a reasonable basis upon which to estimate expected term.       Other Stock Unit Awards       The total number of other stock unit awards that are convertible either to common stock or cash equivalents and are not contingent upon stock price were 1,839,730, 1,997,763,
1,871,559 at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

   Liability award payments relating to Boeing Stock Units totaled $42, $40 and $57 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.       ShareValue Trust       The ShareValue Trust,
established effective July 1, 1996, is a 14-year irrevocable trust that holds our common stock, receives dividends, and distributes to employees the appreciation in value above a 3% per annum threshold rate of return at the end of each
period. The total compensation expense to be recognized over the life of the trust was determined using a binomial option-pricing model and was not affected by adoption of SFAS No. 123R.      The Trust was split between two funds,  fund 1  and  fund 2 , upon its initial funding. Each fund consists of investment periods which result in overlapping periods as follows:       
    An initial investment value is established for each investment period based on the lesser of either (1) fair market
value of the fund or (2) the prior ending balance of that fund. This amount is then compounded by the 3% per annum to determine the threshold amount that must be met for that investment period. At the end of the investment period, the
value of the investment in excess of the threshold amount will result in a distribution to participants. A distribution is proportionally distributed in the ratio each participant s number of months of participation which relates to the total
number of months earned by all participants in the investment period. At December 31, 2008, the Trust held 28,460,769 shares of our common stock in the two funds.      Based on the average stock price of $66.15 as of June 30, 2008, the market value of fund 2 exceeded the threshold of $1,028 by $236. This excess was paid in Boeing common stock, except for partial shares and distributions to non-U.S.
employees and beneficiaries of deceased participants, which was paid in cash. After employee withholding taxes of $81, which were recorded as a liability in the second quarter of 2008 and were paid in the third quarter of 2008, 2.1 million
shares of common stock were distributed to participants during the third quarter of 2008. These distributions were recorded as a deduction to Additional paid-in capital. In addition, related employer payroll taxes of $18 were expensed in the second
quarter of 2008.      Based on the average stock price of $82.285 as of June 30, 2006, the market value of fund 1 exceeded the threshold of $1,004 by $758. This
excess was paid in Boeing common stock, except for partial shares and distributions to non-U.S. employees and beneficiaries of deceased participants, which were paid in cash. After employee withholding taxes of $265, which were recorded as a
liability in the second quarter of 2006 and were paid in the third quarter of 2006, 5.6 million shares of common stock were distributed to participants during the third quarter of 2006. These distributions were recorded as a deduction to
Additional paid-in capital. In addition, related employer payroll taxes of $59 were expensed in the second quarter of 2006.      If on June 30, 2010, the market
value of fund 1 exceeds $1,130, the amount in excess of the threshold will be distributed to employees in shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008 the market values of Fund 1 was $538.         
   97   

Table of Contents  

   The ShareValue Trust is accounted for as a contra-equity account and stated at market value. Market value adjustments are offset to
Additional paid-in capital. At December 31, 2008, there was $108 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the ShareValue Trust which is expected to be recognized over a period of 1.5 years.       Other Compensation Arrangements        Performance Awards       Performance Awards are cash units that payout based on the achievement of long-term financial goals at the end of a three-year period. Each unit has an initial value of $100
dollars. The amount payable at the end of the three-year performance period may be anywhere from $0 to $200 dollars per unit, depending on the Company s performance against plan for a three-year period. The Compensation Committee has the
discretion to pay these awards in cash, stock, or a combination of both after the three-year performance period. Compensation expense, based on the estimated performance payout, is recognized ratably over the performance period.      During 2008 and 2007, we granted Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the achievement of financial goals for the three-year periods ending
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The minimum payout amount is $0 and the maximum amount we could be required to payout for the 2008 and 2007 Performance Awards is $295 and $266.      During the first quarter of 2006, we granted Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the achievement of financial goals for the three-year period ending
December 31, 2008. The payout for these awards of $137 will occur in the first quarter of 2009.       Deferred Stock Compensation       The Company has a deferred compensation plan which permits executives to defer receipt of a portion of their salary, bonus, and certain other incentive awards. Prior to May 1,
2006, employees who participated in the deferred compensation plan could choose to defer in either an interest earning account or a Boeing stock unit account. Effective May 1, 2006, participants can diversify deferred compensation among 19
investment funds including the interest earning account and the Boeing stock unit account.      Total (income)/expense related to deferred stock compensation was ($225),
$51 and $210 in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Additionally, for employees who elected to defer their compensation in stock units prior to January 1, 2006, the Company matched 25% of the deferral with additional stock units. Upon
retirement, the 25% match is settled in cash or stock; however, effective January 1, 2006 all matching contributions are settled in stock. This modification resulted in no incremental compensation. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the
deferred compensation liability which is being marked to market was $1,074 and $1,415.       Note 16   Shareholders  Equity       On October 29, 2007, the Board approved the repurchase of up to $7 billion of common stock (the Program). Unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution, the Program will
expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase. At December 31, 2008, $3,660 in shares may still be purchased under the Program.      As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were 1,200,000,000 common shared authorized. Twenty million shares of authorized preferred stock remain unissued.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Share Balances       The following
table shows changes in each class of shares:       
     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss       The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31 were as follows:       
     Note 17   Derivative Financial Instruments        Cash Flow Hedges       Our cash flow hedges include certain interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign currency forward contracts,
foreign currency option contracts and commodity purchase contracts. Interest rate swap contracts under which we agree to pay fixed rates of interest are designated as cash flow hedges of variable-rate debt obligations. We use foreign currency
forward contracts to manage currency risk associated with certain forecasted transactions, specifically sales and purchase commitments made in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency forward contracts hedge forecasted transactions principally
occurring within five years in the future, with certain contracts hedging transactions up to 2021. We use commodity derivatives, such as fixed-price purchase commitments, to hedge against potentially unfavorable price changes for items used in
production. These include commitments to purchase electricity at fixed prices through 2013.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, gains of
$34, $24, and $24, respectively, (net of tax) were reclassified to cost of products and services from Accumulated other comprehensive loss. In 2006, additional gains of $12 were reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to  
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

Other income, net, as a result of discontinuance of cash flow hedge designation based on the probability that the original forecasted transactions will not occur by
the end of the originally specified time period. Such reclassifications were not significant for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges was insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006.      At December 31, 2008 and 2007, net (losses)/gains of ($101) and $92 (net of tax) were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss associated
with our cash flow hedging transactions. Based on our current portfolio of cash flow hedges, we expect to reclassify to cost of products and services a loss of $13 (net of tax) during 2009.       Fair Value Hedges       Interest rate swaps under which we agree to pay variable rates of
interest are designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt. The net change in fair value of the derivatives and the hedged items is reported in Interest and debt expense. Ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swaps was insignificant for
the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, $9, $5, and $8 of gains related to the basis
adjustment of certain terminated interest rate swaps were amortized to earnings.       Derivative Financial Instruments Not Receiving Hedge Accounting Treatment  
     We also hold certain non-hedging instruments, such as interest exchange agreements, interest rate swaps, warrants, and foreign currency forward contracts. The
changes in fair value of these instruments are recorded in Other income, net. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, these non-hedging instruments resulted in a net gain/(losses) of $3, ($47), and ($6), respectively.   
   Note 18   Significant Group Concentrations of Risk        Credit Risk
      Financial instruments involving potential credit risk are predominantly with commercial aircraft customers and the U.S. government. Of the $12,207 in Accounts
receivable and Customer financing included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008, $6,243 related to commercial aircraft customers ($462 of Accounts receivable and $5,781 of Customer financing) and $2,741
related to the U.S. government. Of the $6,551 of customer financing, $5,717 related to customers we believe have less than investment-grade credit. AirTran Airways, American Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines were associated with 23%, 15% and 7%,
respectively, of our financing portfolio. Financing for aircraft is collateralized by security in the related asset. As of December 31, 2008, there was $10,145 of financing commitments related to aircraft on order including options and proposed
as part of sales campaigns described in Note 11, of which $9,006 related to customers we believe have less than investment-grade credit.       Other Risk
      As of December 31, 2008, approximately 37% of our total workforce were represented by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 2% of our total
workforce were represented by agreements expiring during 2009.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

    Note 19   Fair Value of Financial Instruments       Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 clarifies the definition of fair value, prescribes methods for measuring fair value,
establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to measure fair value and expands disclosures about the use of fair value measurements. In accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement
No. 157  (FSP 157-2), we will defer the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for our nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those items recognized or disclosed at fair value on an annual or more frequently recurring basis, until
January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material impact on our fair value measurements.      The following tables present our assets and
liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value.       
    Marketable securities and equity investments are valued using a market approach based on the quoted market prices of
identical instruments when available or other observable inputs such as trading prices of identical instruments in inactive markets. The EETC fair value is derived using discounted cash flows at market yield based on estimated trading prices for
comparable debt securities. Derivatives include foreign currency, commodity and interest rate contracts. Our foreign currency forward contracts are valued using an income approach based on the present value of the forward rate less the contract rate
multiplied by the notional amount. Commodity derivatives are valued using an income approach based on the present value of the commodity index prices less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount. The fair value of our interest rate swaps
is derived from a discounted cash flow analysis based on the terms of the contract and the interest rate curve. The fair value of warrants is based on a third-party options model and principal inputs of stock price, volatility and time to expiry.
        
   101   

Table of Contents  

   For the year ended December 31, 2008, impaired receivables with a carrying amount of $16 were written down to their fair value
of $8, based on the fair value for the related aircraft collateral which were determined using observable inputs (Level 2).       Fair Value Disclosures
      The following table presents our assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying values and estimated fair values
were as follows at December 31:       
    The fair values of the Accounts receivable and Accounts payable is based on current market rates for loans of the same risk
and maturities. The fair value of our debt is based on current market rates for debt of the same risk and maturities. The estimated fair value of our Other liabilities balance at December 31, 2008 and 2007 approximates its carrying value. The
fair value of our variable rate notes receivable that reprice frequently approximate their carrying values. The fair values of fixed rate notes receivable are estimated using discounted cash flows analysis using interest rates currently offered on
loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality. With regard to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of future financing commitments because there is not a market for
such future commitments.       Note 20   Legal Proceedings       Various legal
proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts and other matters are pending against us. Potentially material contingencies are discussed below.      We are subject to various U.S. government investigations, from which civil, criminal or administrative proceedings could result or have resulted. Such proceedings involve, or could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties,
compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export
privileges, based on the results of investigations. We believe, based upon current information, that the outcome of any such government disputes and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, except as set
forth below.       A-12 Litigation       In 1991, the U.S. Navy notified McDonnell
Douglas Corporation (now one of our subsidiaries) and General Dynamics Corporation (together, the Team) that it was terminating for default the Team s contract for development and initial production of the A-12 aircraft. The Team filed a legal
action to contest the Navy s default termination, to assert its rights to convert the termination to one for  the  
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

convenience of the government,  and to obtain payment for work done and costs incurred on the A-12 contract but not paid to date. As of December 31, 2008,
inventories included approximately $585 of recorded costs on the A-12 contract, against which we have established a loss provision of $350. The amount of the provision, which was established in 1990, was based on McDonnell Douglas Corporation s
belief, supported by an opinion of outside counsel, that the termination for default would be converted to a termination for convenience, and that the best estimate of possible loss on termination for convenience was $350.      On August 31, 2001, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision after trial upholding the government s default termination of the A-12 contract. In 2003, the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, finding that the trial court had applied the wrong legal standard, vacated the trial court s 2001 decision and ordered the case sent back to that court for further proceedings. On May 3, 2007, the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision upholding the government s default termination of the A-12 contract. We believe that the ruling raises serious issues for appeal, and on May 4, 2007 we filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court
which we are now pursuing in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. This follows an earlier trial court decision in favor of the Team and reversal of that initial decision on appeal.      We believe that the termination for default is contrary to law and fact and that the loss provision established by McDonnell Douglas Corporation in 1990, which was supported by an
opinion from outside counsel, continues to provide adequately for the reasonably possible reduction in value of A-12 net contracts in process as of December 31, 2008. Final resolution of the A-12 litigation will depend on the outcome of further
proceedings or possible negotiations with the U.S. government. The appeal was argued on December 3, 2008 and a decision is anticipated in 2009.      If, after all
judicial proceedings have ended, the courts determine, contrary to our belief, that a termination for default was appropriate, we would incur an additional loss of approximately $275, consisting principally of remaining inventory costs and
adjustments, and, if the courts further hold that a money judgment should be entered against the Team, we would be required to pay the U.S. government one-half of the unliquidated progress payments of $1,350 plus statutory interest from February
1991 (currently totaling approximately $1,415). In that event, our loss would total approximately $1,654 in pre-tax charges. Should, however, the March 31, 1998 judgment of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in favor of the Team be reinstated, we
would be entitled to receive payment of approximately $1,115, including interest.       Employment and Benefits Litigation       On March 2, 2006, we were served with a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas, alleging that hiring decisions made by Spirit Aerospace, Inc.
(Spirit) near the time of our sale of the Wichita facility were tainted by age discrimination, violated Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), violated our collective bargaining agreements, and constituted retaliation. The case is brought
as a class action on behalf of individuals not hired by Spirit. We are indemnified by Spirit for all claims relating to the 2005 sales transaction pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement with Spirit. Spirit has not agreed to indemnify
Boeing for claims arising from employment activity prior to January 1, 2005. Many of the non-indemnified claims have been dismissed by the court or dropped by the plaintiffs but might be the subject of appeal, while certain potentially
non-indemnified claims remain. Age Discrimination Employment Act (ADEA) claims by Consent Plaintiffs terminated prior to January 2005 were dismissed by stipulated order on June 4, 2008.      A second alleged class action involving our sale of the Wichita facility to Spirit was filed on February 21, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas. The
case is also brought under ERISA, and, in general, claims that we have not properly provided benefits to certain categories of  
       
   103   

Table of Contents  

former employees affected by the sale .  On May 22, 2008, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint and on June 3, 2008, filed a motion to certify a
class. On July 14, 2008, the court granted class certification for the purpose of adjudicating liability for the class of employees who went to work for Spirit, and deferred class certification motions for the class of employees who did not go
to work for Spirit.      On September 13, 2006, two UAW Local 1069 retirees filed a class action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee alleging that recently announced changes to medical plans for retirees of UAW Local 1069 constituted a breach of collective bargaining agreements under  301 of the Labor-Management Relations Act and  502(a)(1)(B) of
ERISA. On September 15, 2006, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the International UAW and two retiree medical plan participants seeking a declaratory judgment confirming that we
have the legal right to make changes to these medical benefits. On June 4, 2007, the Middle District of Tennessee ordered that its case be transferred to the Northern District of Illinois. The two cases were consolidated on September 24,
2007. The UAW filed a Motion to file a Second Amended Complaint on October 26, 2007 in which it sought to drop the retirees  claim for vested lifetime benefits based on successive collective bargaining agreements and instead allege that
the current collective bargaining agreement is the sole alleged source of rights to retiree medical benefits. We opposed the motion. On January 17, 2008, the court granted the motion to amend the complaint. Both parties filed Motions for Class
Certification on November 16, 2007 and filed briefs on class certification on February 28, 2008. The parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment on May 27, 2008. On September 30, 2008, the court certified a class of retirees
for the vested lifetime benefits claims and the claims pertaining to the current collective bargaining agreement. The summary judgment motions are currently pending before the court. It is not possible at this time to determine whether an adverse
outcome would have a material adverse effect on our financial position.      On October 13, 2006, we were named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. Plaintiffs, seeking to represent a class of similarly situated participants and beneficiaries in the Boeing Company Voluntary Investment Plan (the VIP Plan), alleged that fees and expenses
incurred by the VIP Plan were and are unreasonable and excessive, not incurred solely for the benefit of the VIP Plan and its participants, and were undisclosed to participants. The plaintiffs further alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary
duties in violation of  502(a)(2) of ERISA, and sought injunctive and equitable relief pursuant to  502(a)(3) of ERISA. Plaintiffs filed a motion to certify the class, which we opposed. On December 14, 2007, the court granted
plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint, which complaint added our Employee Benefits Investment Committee as a defendant and included new allegations regarding alleged breach of fiduciary duty. The stay of proceedings entered by the court on
September 10, 2007, pending resolution by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of  Lively v. Dynegy, Inc. , was lifted on April 3, 2008, after notification that the  Lively  case had settled. On April 16, 2008,
plaintiffs sought leave to file a second amended complaint, which we opposed, which would add investment performance allegations. On August 22, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs leave to file their second amended complaint. Plaintiffs filed
the second amended complaint on August 25, 2008. On September 29, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs  motion to certify the class of current, past and future participants or beneficiaries in the VIP Plan. On September 9, 2008, we
filed a motion for summary judgment to dismiss claims arising prior to September 27, 2000 based on the ERISA statute of limitations. The plaintiffs opposed this motion and the motion is currently pending before the court. On October 14,
2008, we filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The plaintiffs opposed this motion and it is currently pending before the court of appeals. It is not possible at this time to
determine whether an adverse outcome would have a material adverse effect on our financial position.       BSSI/ICO Litigation       On August 16, 2004, our wholly owned subsidiary, Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc. (BSSI) filed a complaint for declaratory relief against ICO Global Communications
(Operations), Ltd. (ICO) in  
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

Los Angeles County Superior Court seeking a declaration that ICO s prior termination of two contracts for convenience extinguished all claims between the parties.
On September 16, 2004, ICO filed a cross - complaint alleging breach of contract, economic duress, fraud, unfair competition, and other claims. ICO added The Boeing Company as a defendant in October 2005 to some of these claims and also
sued it for interference with contract and misappropriation of trade secrets. On January 13, 2006, BSSI filed a cross-complaint against ICO, ICO Global Communications (Holdings) Limited (ICO Holdings), ICO s parent, and Eagle River
Investments, LLC, parent of both ICO and ICO Holdings, alleging fraud and other claims. Trial commenced on June 19, 2008, with ICO seeking to recover approximately $2,000 in damages, including all monies paid to BSSI and Boeing Launch Services,
plus punitive damages and other unspecified damages and relief.      On October 21, 2008, the jury returned a verdict awarding ICO compensatory damages of $371 plus
interest, based upon findings of contract breach, fraud and interference with contract. On October 31, 2008 the jury awarded ICO punitive damages of $236. On January 2, 2009, the Court entered judgment for ICO in the amount of $631 which
included $24 in prejudgment interest. Post-judgment interest will accrue on the judgment at the rate of 10% per year (simple interest).      We have filed
post-trial motions before the trial court seeking to set aside the verdict. If those motions are denied, we expect to file an appeal on multiple grounds. We believe that we would have substantial arguments on appeal, which we will pursue vigorously
if necessary.       BSSI/Telesat Canada       On November 9, 2006, Telesat
Canada (Telesat) and a group of its insurers served BSSI with an arbitration demand alleging breach of contract, gross negligence and willful misconduct in connection with the constructive total loss of Anik F1, a model 702 satellite manufactured by
BSSI. Telesat and its insurers seek over $385 in damages and $10 in lost profits. BSSI has asserted a counterclaim against Telesat for $6 in unpaid performance incentive payments and also a $180 contingent counterclaim on the theory that any
ultimate award to reimburse the insurers for their payments to Telesat could only result from Telesat s breach of its contractual obligation to obtain a full waiver of subrogation rights barring recourse against BSSI. We believe that the claims
asserted by Telesat and its insurers lack merit, but we have notified our insurance carriers of the demand. The arbitration hearing in this matter has been scheduled for November 2010.      On April 26, 2007, a group of our insurers filed a declaratory judgment action in the Circuit Court of Cook County asserting certain defenses to coverage and requesting a declaration of their obligation under our insurance
and reinsurance policies relating to the Telesat Anik F1 arbitration. On June 12, 2008, the court granted the insurers  motion for summary judgment, concluding that our insurance policy excluded the kinds of losses alleged by Telesat. On
January 16, 2009, the court ruled in favor of Boeing to require the insurers to provide insurance coverage to defend the claim.       BSSI/SES New Skies
      On January 30, 2007, the SES New Skies (New Skies) NSS-8 satellite, a Boeing 702 model spacecraft, was declared a loss when the Sea Launch Zenit-3SL vehicle
carrying the satellite experienced an anomaly during the launch that destroyed the rocket and the payload. In the event of such a launch failure, New Skies had an option under the NSS-8 contract to order a replacement satellite. New Skies did not
exercise the option. Instead, New Skies purported to cancel the contract on April 27, 2007, maintaining that discussions between the parties regarding the never-exercised option amounted to a repudiation by BSSI. We vigorously disputed that
characterization.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

   On May 22, 2008, we received a formal dispute notice from New Skies alleging that BSSI breached the NSS-8 contract by failing
to timely deliver a satellite in orbit and repudiating the replacement satellite option. The dispute notice included neither a quantification of potential damages nor a sum certain demand. We do not believe that SES New Skies could have any valid
claims relating to the satellite contract but await further developments.       Note 21   Segment Information       We operate in five principal segments: Commercial Airplanes; Boeing Military Aircraft, (formerly Precision Engagement and
Mobility Systems), Network and Space Systems, and Global Services and Support (formerly Support Systems), collectively IDS; and BCC. All other activities fall within the Other segment, principally made up of Engineering, Operations and Technology,
Connexion by Boeing   SM    and our Shared Services Group. On August 17, 2006, we announced that we would exit the Connexion by Boeing   SM    high speed broadband communications business having completed a detailed business and market analysis. See Note 7. See page 47 for Summary of Business Segment Data, which is an integral part
of this note.      Our Commercial Airplanes operation principally involves development, production and marketing of commercial jet aircraft and providing related support
services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide.      Our IDS operations principally involve research, development, production, modification and
support of the following products and related systems: military aircraft, both land-based and aircraft-carrier-based, including fighter, transport and attack aircraft with wide mission capability and vertical/short takeoff and landing capability;
helicopters and missiles, space systems, missile defense systems, satellites and satellite launching vehicles, and information and battle management systems. Although some IDS products are contracted in the commercial environment, the primary
customer is the U.S. government.      Our Boeing Military Aircraft segment programs include AH-64 Apache, CH-47 Chinook, C-17 Globemaster, EA-18G Growler, Airborne
Attack Electronic Aircraft, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15 Strike Eagle, F-22 Raptor, Joint Direct Attack Munition, P-8A Poseidon, Small Diameter Bomb, T-45 TS Goshawk V-22 Osprey, 737 AEW C, and international KC-767 Tanker.      Our Network and Space Systems segment programs include Airborne Laser, Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals, Future Combat Systems, SBInet, Future Rapid Effects
System, Global Positioning System, Ground-based Midcourse Defense, International Space Station, Joint Tactical Radio System, Satellite Systems, Space Payloads, and Space Shuttle.      Our Global Services and Support segment programs include Integrated Logistics on platforms including AH-64, C-17, CH-47, E-6, F/A-18, F-22 and V-22; Maintenance, Modifications and Upgrades on platforms including A-10, B-1,
B-52, C-130, F-15, KC-10, KC-135, and T-38; Training Systems and Services on platforms including AH-64, F-16, C-17, F-15, F-16, F/A-18, and T-45; and International Support and Advanced Global Services and Support.      Our BCC segment is primarily engaged in supporting our major operating units by facilitating, arranging, structuring and providing selective financing solutions to our customers
and managing our overall financial exposures.      Engineering, Operations and Technology is an advanced research and development organization focused on innovative
technologies, improved processes and the creation of new products. Financing activities other than BCC, consisting principally of four C-17 transport aircraft under lease to the  
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

UKRAF and intercompany guarantees we provide to BCC, are included within the Other segment classification.      Effective January 1, 2008 and 2007 certain programs were realigned among Integrated Defense Systems segments. In addition, certain environmental remediation contracts
(formerly included in Network and Space Systems) were transferred to the Other Segment. Certain intercompany items were also realigned between the Other Segment and Unallocated items and eliminations. Business segment data for all periods presented
have been adjusted to reflect the realignment.      While our principal operations are in the United States, Canada, and Australia, some key suppliers and subcontractors
are located in Europe and Japan. Revenues by geographic area consisted of the following:       
    Commercial Airplanes segment revenues were approximately 70%, 79% and 73% of total revenues in Europe and approximately 75%,
87% and 80% of total revenues in Asia, excluding China, for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. IDS revenues were approximately 20%, 16% and 22% of total revenues in Europe and approximately 24%, 12% and 20% of total revenues in Asia, excluding
China, for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. IDS revenues from the U.S. government represented 46%, 42% and 46% of consolidated revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Approximately 4% of operating assets are located outside the United States.
        
   107   

Table of Contents  

   The information in the following tables is derived directly from the segments  internal financial reporting used for corporate
management purposes.       Research and Development Expense*        
     
     Depreciation and Amortization        
    We recorded earnings from operations associated with our equity method investments of $47, $100, and $50 in our Commercial
Airplanes segment and $194, $87, and $96 primarily in our N SS segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      For segment
reporting purposes, we record Commercial Airplanes segment revenues and cost of sales for airplanes transferred to other segments. Such transfers may include airplanes accounted for as operating leases and considered transferred to the BCC segment
and airplanes transferred to the IDS segment for further modification prior to delivery to the customer. The revenues and cost of sales for these transfers are eliminated in the Unallocated items and eliminations caption. For segment reporting
purposes, we record IDS revenues and cost of sales for the modification performed on airplanes received from Commercial Airplanes when the airplane is delivered to the customer or at the attainment of performance milestones.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

   Intersegment revenues, eliminated in Unallocated items and eliminations are shown in the following table.       
     Unallocated Items and Eliminations       Unallocated items and eliminations includes costs not attributable to business segments. Unallocated items and eliminations also includes the impact of cost measurement differences between generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States of America and federal cost accounting standards as well as intercompany profit eliminations. The most significant items not allocated to segments are shown in the following table.       
    Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash and investments, prepaid pension expense, net deferred tax assets, capitalized
interest and assets held by our Shared Services Group as well as intercompany eliminations. Unallocated liabilities include various accrued employee compensation and benefit liabilities, including accrued retiree health care, net deferred tax
liabilities and income taxes payable. Debentures and notes payable are not allocated to other business segments except for the portion related to BCC. Unallocated capital expenditures relate primarily to Shared Services Group assets and segment
assets managed by Shared Services Group, primarily IDS.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

   Segment assets, liabilities, capital expenditures and backlog are summarized in the tables below.       
       
   110   

Table of Contents  

    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)        
    During the second quarter of 2008, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $248 on our international Airborne Early Warning and
Control program in our Boeing Military Aircraft segment. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $685 on our 747 program in our Commercial Airplanes segment. During the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the IAM strike
reduced revenue by approximately $6.4 billion.         
   111   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company      Chicago, Illinois      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial
position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      As discussed in Note 14 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an Amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) , which changed its method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits as of December 31, 2006.      We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 9, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.      /s/ D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP      Chicago,
Illinois      February 9, 2009         
   112   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
     None.         Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

(a)  
     
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.        Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008 and have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. These disclosure controls and procedures include, without
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.       

(b)  
     
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.        Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation under the framework in Internal Control  
Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.      Our internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.       

(c)  
     
  Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting.        In the fourth quarter of 2008, we
continued our migration strategy to a single, enterprise-wide instance of a general ledger system with the implementation of the accounts receivable module in our Commercial Airplane business unit. These changes were made as part of an ongoing
process improvement initiative to strengthen the overall design and operating effectiveness of our financial reporting controls and are not in response to an identified internal control deficiency. There were no other changes during the fourth
quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.         Item 9B. Other Information       None         
   113   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company      Chicago, Illinois      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Boeing
Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion,
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 of the Company and our report dated February 9, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements and financial statement schedule and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans- an Amendment for FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) , which changed its method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits as of December 31, 2006.      / S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP      Chicago, Illinois
     February 9, 2009         
   114   

Table of Contents  

      PART III          Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       Certain information required by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Election of Directors  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included
under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.       Codes of Ethics.  We have adopted: (1) The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for the Board of Directors; (2) The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees which is applicable to our Chief Financial
Officer (CFO), Controller and all finance employees; and (3) The Boeing Code of Conduct that applies to all employees, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), (collectively, the Codes of Conduct). The Codes of Conduct are posted on our
website, www.boeing.com. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers of, the Codes of Conduct covering our CEO, CFO and/or Controller promptly following the date of such amendments or waivers. A copy of the Codes of Conduct
may be obtained upon request, without charge, by contacting our Office of Internal Governance at 888-970-7171 or by writing to us at The Boeing Company, 100 N. Riverside, Chicago, IL, 60606, Attn: Senior Vice President, Office of Internal
Governance. The information contained or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any report filed with the SEC.      No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers, directors or director nominees.      A listing of and certain information about our executive officers as of February 1, 2009 is included in Part I under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant , and that information is incorporated by reference
herein.      On October 27, 2008, our Board approved amendments to our By-laws that clarified that the advance notice provisions set forth in Section 11.1 of
the By-Laws are the exclusive means for a stockholder to make a director nomination or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which contain their
own procedural requirements) before an annual meeting of stockholders and to update the information that must be included in the stockholder notice of nomination or other business. As a result of these and other minor changes, shareholders may now
(1) suggest candidates to our Board for consideration by the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee and (2) submit nominees for election as director.       Suggestion of Candidates to the Board for Consideration by the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee       Shareholders wishing to suggest
qualified candidates for consideration by the Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee may do so by writing at any time to the Office of Corporate Secretary, The Boeing Company, 100 North Riverside Plaza, MC 5003-1001, Chicago, Illinois
60606-1596. The correspondence must state the name, age and qualifications of the person proposed for consideration by such Committee. The Committee evaluates the qualifications of such suggested candidates on the same basis as those of other
director candidates.         
   115   

Table of Contents  

    Shareholder Nominations to the Board of Directors       The Governance, Organization and Nominating Committee will also consider qualified candidates as nominees for election as director that are properly submitted by the Company s shareholders. The Committee evaluates the qualifications of
candidates properly submitted by shareholders on the same basis as those of other director candidates. Shareholders can submit qualified candidates as nominees for election as director by writing to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Boeing
Corporate Offices, 100 North Riverside Plaza, MC 5003-1001, Chicago, Illinois 60606-1596. Submissions should follow the procedures, including timing, set forth in the Company s By-Laws and as will be described in our Proxy Statement for our
2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.      The information required by Item 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Audit
Committee  in the section entitled  Committee Membership  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.        
 Item 11. Executive Compensation       The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Compensation of
Executive Officers  and  Director Compensation  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.      The
information required by Item 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in the 2009 Proxy
Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Security
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Security Ownership of More Than 5% Shareholders  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   116   

Table of Contents  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information       We
currently maintain two equity compensation plans that provide for the issuance of common stock to officers and other employees, directors and consultants. Each of these compensation plans was approved by our shareholders. The following table sets
forth information regarding outstanding options and shares available for future issuance under these plans as of December 31, 2008:       

1      
     
    Excludes additional shares of 1,802,390 which could be transferred in and converted or deferred if Performance share vestings
exceed 100% and additional shares of 505,198 which could be issued for future deferred vestings that are eligible for the 25% matching contribution.      

2      
     
    Excludes the potential performance awards which the Compensation Committee has the discretion to pay in cash, stock or a
combination of both after the three-year performance periods in 2009 and 2010.         For further information, refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.         Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
     The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Transactions with Related Persons  in the 2009 Proxy
Statement, and the information is incorporated by reference herein.      The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the
caption  Board Membership and Director Independence  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and the information is incorporated by reference herein.        
 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services       The information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, will be included under the caption  Independent Auditors Fees Report  in the 2009 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   117   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV          Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
     
  List of documents filed as part of this report:         

1.   
     
   Financial Statements         Our consolidated financial statements are as set
forth under Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K.       

2.   
     
   Financial Statement Schedules          

Schedule    
      
     Description    
      
   Page    
 
  II  
      
   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  124   
    The auditors  report with respect to the above-listed financial statement schedule appears on page 112
of this report. All other financial statements and schedules not listed are omitted either because they are not applicable, not required, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements.       

(2)  
     
  Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement, Liquidation or Succession.         

(3)  
     
  Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.         

(4)  
     
  Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures.        Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, we are not filing certain instruments with respect to our debt, as the total amount of securities currently provided for under each of such instruments does not exceed 10 percent of
our total assets on a consolidated basis. We hereby agree to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.       

The Boeing Company Bank Credit Agreements.          

(i)  
     
    U.S. $1.0 Billion 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of November 14, 2008, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase  
          
   118   

Table of Contents  

Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A.
as administrative agent for such Lenders (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-00442) dated November 14, 2008).          

(ii)  
     
  U.S. $2.0 Billion Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as syndicated agent, Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent for such Lenders (Exhibit (10)(ii) to the Company s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007).         

(iii)  
     
  Joint Venture Master Agreement by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and a Delaware LLC, dated as of May 2, 2005 (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.)         

(iv)  
     
  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005 by and between The Boeing Company and Mid-Western Aircraft Systems, Inc. (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.)         

Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans          

(vi)  
     
  1992 Stock Option Plan for Nonemployee Directors.         

(vii)  
     
  Supplemental Benefit Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Form S-8 filed on
December 22, 2008).         
       
   119   

Table of Contents  

(ix)  
     
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K) dated
October 28, 2007.)         

(x)  
     
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of The Boeing Company, as amended on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10)(ii) (Management Contracts) to the Company s Current Report on Form
8-K dated October 28, 2007.)         

(b)  
     
  Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant.         

(xii)  
     
  Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees of the Company and Subsidiaries, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.7) to the Company s Current Report on Form
8-K dated October 28, 2007.)         

(xix)  
     
  Compensation for Directors of The Boeing Company (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008).         

120   

Table of Contents  

(xxiii)  
     
  Stock Purchase and Restriction Agreement dated as of July 1, 1996, between The Boeing Company and Wachovia Bank of North Carolina, N.A. as Trustee, under the ShareValue Trust Agreement
dated as of July 1, 1996. (Exhibit 10.20 to the Form S-4.)         

(xxvi)  
     
  The Boeing Company Executive Layoff Benefits Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008. (Exhibit (10.9) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 28, 2007.)         

(12)  
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.         

(i)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for Member of the Board of Directors (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).         

(ii)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).         

(iii)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Conduct (www.boeing.com/corp_gov).         

(21)  
     
  List of Company Subsidiaries.         

(23)  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in connection with filings on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933.         

(i)  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.           
   121   

Table of Contents  

(ii)  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(i)  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(ii)  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(99)  
     
  Additional Exhibits         

(ii)  
     
  Post-Merger Combined Statements of Operations and Financial Position. (Exhibit (99)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.)
          
   122   

Table of Contents  

      Signatures       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the date indicated.
     THE BOEING COMPANY            (Registrant)       

By:  
     
    / S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY , J R .  
  W. James McNerney, Jr.   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

By:  
     
    / S / J AMES  A. B ELL      James A. Bell   Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
    By:   
     
    / S / H ARRY  S. M C G EE  III     Harry S. McGee III   Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller   

Date: February 9, 2009      Pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

/ S / J OHN  H. B IGGS      John H. Biggs   Director   

/ S / K ENNETH  M.
D UBERSTEIN              Kenneth M. Duberstein   Director    

/ S / J OHN  E. B RYSON      John E. Bryson   Director   

/ S / J OHN  F. M C D ONNELL      John F. McDonnell   Director    

/ S / A RTHUR  D. C OLLINS      Arthur D. Collins   Director   

/ S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY ,
J R .     W. James McNerney, Jr.   Director    

/ S / L INDA  Z. C OOK      Linda Z. Cook   Director   

/ S / M IKE  S.
Z AFIROVSKI              Mike S. Zafirovski   Director    

/ S / W ILLIAM  M. D ALEY      William M. Daley   Director   

123   

Table of Contents  

      SCHEDULE II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries       Allowance for Customer
Financing and Other Assets      (Deducted from assets to which they apply)       (Dollars in millions)        
     
       EXHIBIT (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
       The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        (Dollars in millions)        

(1)      
     
    Amount does not include tax-related interest expense which is reported as a component of Income tax expense in our Consolidated
Statements of Operations.            
   124   

<EX-21>
 2
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

List of Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21        EXHIBIT (21)   List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    
 
  757UA, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ACN 106 604 871 Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  AeroSpace Employees  Superannuation Fund Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  AeroSpace Technologies of Australia Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Aileron Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Akash, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Alteon Training Asia LLC  
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
  Alteon Training Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Alteon Training Holding UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Alteon Training International Spain, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Alteon Training L.L.C.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Alteon Training Leasing Corp.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Alteon Training Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Alteon Training Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Alteon Training Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Alteon Training UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Arabia Limited  

Astro Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Astro-II, Inc.  
      
  Vermont   
 
  Atara Services Norway AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Autometric Service Company, Inc.  
      
  Virginia   
 
  Autometric, Inc.  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Autonetics, Inc. (Namesaver Only)  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Autonomous Underwater Ventures, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall (Canada) Ltd.  
      
  Ontario   
 
  Aviall Airstocks Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Aviall Asia Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Aviall Australia Pty. Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Aviall de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Aviall Foreign Sales Corporation (Dormant)  
      
  Barbados   
 
  Aviall Japan Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall New Zealand  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Aviall Product Repair Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall PTE LTD  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Aviall Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BC Capital Partners L.P.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Aruba Leasing A.V.V.  
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
  BCC Bolongo Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Bolongo Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  BCC Carbita Point Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Carbita Point Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  BCC Cascades Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Charlotte Amalie Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Charlotte Amalie Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
       
   125   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

BCC Cove Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Drakes Passage Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Equipment Leasing Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Grand Cayman Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  BCC Lindbergh Bay Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Mafolie Hill Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Magens Bay Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Mahogany Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Red Hook Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Riverside Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNA International Systems, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNA Operations International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ Net Jets, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ Sales Company L.L.C.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing   Corinth Co.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing   Irving Co.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing (Asia) Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Boeing (Asia) Services Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Boeing (China) Co., Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
  Boeing (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  Boeing (Gibraltar) Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  Boeing 100 North Riverside LLC  
      
  Illinois   
 
  Boeing Aerospace   TAMS, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Middle East Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Operations   International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Operations, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Poland sp. z o.o.  
      
  Poland   
 
  Boeing Airborne Surveillance Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aircraft Holding Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Australia Commercial Aviation Services Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Australia Component Repairs Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Australia Holdings Proprietary Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Australia Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Brasil Servicos Technicos Aeronauticos Ltda (an LLC)  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Boeing Business Services Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Canada Holding Ltd.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Boeing Canada Operations Ltd.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Boeing Capital Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Leasing Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Boeing Capital Loan Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Securities Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Services Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Washington Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing CAS GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing CAS Holding GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing Cesk  s.r.o.  
      
  Czech Republic   
 
  Boeing China, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
       
   126   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Boeing Commercial Space Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Constructors, Inc.  
      
  Texas   
 
  Boeing Cyprus Holdings Ltd  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Boeing Defence UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing Domestic Sales Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing Enterprises Australia, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Financial Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing Global Holdings Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Global Sales Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Global Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Group United Kingdom Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing Hornet Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Hungary, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing India Property Management Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Boeing International B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing International B.V.   Co. Holding KGaA  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing International Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Corporation India Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Boeing International Holdings, Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Boeing International Logistics Spares, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Overhaul   Repair Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Sales Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing International Support Systems Company  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
  Boeing Investment Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Boeing Launch Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Logistics Spares, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing LTS, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Management Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Middle East Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Netherlands B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Netherlands C.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Netherlands Leasing, B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Nevada, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing North American Space Alliance Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing North American Space Operations Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Norwegian Holdings AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Boeing of Canada Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Offset Company Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Operations International, Incorporated  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Overseas, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Phantom Works Investments, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Pharmacy, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Precision Gear, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Realty Corporation  
      
  California   
 
  Boeing Research   Technology Europe, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Boeing Russia, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Sales Corporation  
      
  Guam   
 
  Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
       
   127   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Boeing Service Company  
      
  Texas   
 
  Boeing Space Operations Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Stellar Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Stores, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Superannuation Pty. Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Sweden Holdings AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Boeing Travel Management Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing United Kingdom Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing Worldwide Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Worldwide Operations Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Boeing-SVS, Inc.  
      
  Nevada   
 
  CAG, Inc.  
      
  Oregon   
 
  Carmen Options Sweden AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  CBSA Leasing II, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CBSA Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CBSA Partners, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Chartworx Holland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  C-Map Holland B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  C-Map USA, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  C-Map/Commercial, Ltd.  
      
  Massachusetts   
 
  Connexion by Boeing Eastern Europe Limited Liability Company  
      
  Russian Federation   
 
  Connexion by Boeing Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Connexion By Boeing Of Canada Company  
      
  Canada   
 
  Conquest, Inc.  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Continental DataGraphics Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Continental Graphics Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Continental Graphics Holdings, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Cougar, Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Cruise L.L.C.  
      
  Russian Federation   
 
  Delmar Photographic   Printing Company  
      
  North Carolina   
 
  Digital Receiver Technology  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Dillon, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Douglas Express Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Douglas Federal Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Douglas Leasing Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Falcon II Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Falcon Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Frontier Systems, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  FSBTI Argentina S.R.L.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Golden Gem, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hanway Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hawk Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hawker de Havilland Aerospace Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Hawker de Havilland Inc. (INACTIVE)  
      
  California   
 
  Hydroservice AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  ILS eBusiness Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Insitu, Inc.  
      
  Washington   
 
  Intellibus Network Solutions, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Inventory Locator Service, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Inventory Locator Service-UK, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
       
   128   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Jeppesen (Canada) Ltd.  
      
  Quebec   
 
  Jeppesen Asia/Pacific Ptd. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Jeppesen Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Jeppesen DataPlan, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Jeppesen Hellas Marine Single Member Limited Liability Company  
      
  Greece   
 
  Jeppesen India Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Jeppesen Italia S.r.l.  
      
  Italy   
 
  Jeppesen Japan K.K.  
      
  Japan   
 
  Jeppesen Korea Co., Ltd.  
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
  Jeppesen Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  Jeppesen Marine Australia Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Jeppesen Marine UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jeppesen Marine, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen Norway AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solution AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solutions UK Ltd  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solutions, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen Poland Sp.zo.o  
      
  Poland   
 
  Jeppesen S.A.  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Jeppesen Sanderson, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen South Africa (Proprietary) Ltd.  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Jeppesen Systems AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Jeppesen U.K. Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Kestrel Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Kunming Alteon Boeing Advanced Flight Training Co., Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
  Kuta-One Aircraft Corporation, Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Kuta-Two Aircraft Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Longacres Park, Inc.  
      
  Washington   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Aircraft Finance Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Arabia, Limited  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Corporation  
      
  Maryland   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Dakota Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Express, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas F-15 Technical Services Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Foreign Sales Corporation  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Support Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Indonesia Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Middle East, Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Services, Inc.  
      
  Missouri   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Truck Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MD Indonesia Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDAFC   Nashville Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MD-Air Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Aircraft Leasing Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Aircraft Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Carson Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Carson Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Express Leasing Company  
      
  Delaware   
       
   129   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

MDFC   Express Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Knoxville Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Knoxville Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Lakewood Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Memphis Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Memphis Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Reno Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Sierra Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Spring Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Tahoe Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC Spring Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MD-Federal Holding Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Montana Aviation Research Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Morintech Ltd.  
      
  Russia Federation   
 
  Morintech Navigation AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Ocean 1 S.r.l  

Ocean Systems Incorporated  
      
  California   
 
  ORCAS Leasing B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  OU Jeppesen Estonia  
      
  Estonia   
 
  Pacific Business Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Preston Aviation Solutions Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Preston Aviation Solutions Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Raven Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RavenWing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RGL-3 Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RGL-4 Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Rocketdyne, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Skarven Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Solhoi AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Spectrolab, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  Taiko Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Tapestry Solutions, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  Team Apache Systems, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Thayer Leasing Company-1  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Wingspan, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  World Navigation Management B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Yunnan Alteon Boeing Advanced Flight Training Co., Ltd  
      
  China   
    Total Number of Subsidiaries: 282         
   130   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT (23)        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in
Registration Statement Nos. 33-25332, 33-31434, 33-43854, 33-58798, 33-52773, 333-03191, 333-16363, 333-26867, 333-32461, 333-32491, 333-32499, 333-32567, 333-35324, 333-41920, 333-47450, 333-54234, 333-73252, 333-107677, 333-140837 and 333-156403
on Form S-8 and Post-Effective Amendments to Registration Statement Nos. 333-03191, 333-47450, 333-35324 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 9, 2009, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Boeing
Company (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company s changes in accounting for pension and postretirement benefits), and the effectiveness of The Boeing Company s internal
control over financial reporting appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2008.      / S / D ELOITTE 
  T OUCHE  LLP      Chicago, Illinois      February 9, 2009
        
   131   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(I)>
 4
 dex31i.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF W. JAMES MCNERNEY, JR.

Section 302 Certification of W. James McNerney, Jr. 

EXHIBIT (31)(i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002       I, W. James McNerney, Jr., certify that:       

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;         

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 9, 2009       

/ S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY , J R .   
 
    W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    
       
   132   

</EX-31.(I)>

<EX-31.(II)>
 5
 dex31ii.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF JAMES A. BELL

Section 302 Certification of James A. Bell 

EXHIBIT (31)(ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002       I, James A. Bell, certify that:       

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;         

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 9, 2009       

/ S / J AMES  A. B ELL    
 
    James A. Bell     Executive Vice President, Corporate     President and Chief Financial Officer    
       
   133   

</EX-31.(II)>

<EX-32.(I)>
 6
 dex32i.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF W. JAMES MCNERNEY, JR.

Section 906 Certification of W. James McNerney, Jr. 

EXHIBIT (32)(i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, W. James McNerney, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant
to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
     
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
     
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY , J R .   
 
    W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman, President and     Chief Executive Officer    
    February 9, 2009         
   134   

</EX-32.(I)>

<EX-32.(II)>
 7
 dex32ii.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF JAMES A. BELL

Section 906 Certification of James A. Bell 

EXHIBIT (32)(ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James A. Bell, Executive Vice President, Corporate President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as
adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
     
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
     
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S / J AMES  A. B ELL    
 
    James A. Bell     Executive Vice President, Corporate     President and Chief Financial Officer    
    February 9, 2009         
   135   

</EX-32.(II)>

