<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100208_10-K_edgar_data_12927_0001193125-10-024406_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6274792</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>393326</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>300405</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1397635</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1905693</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1963981</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>155</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-024406.hdr.sgml : 20100208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100208162855
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-024406
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100208

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BOEING CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000012927
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT [3721]
		IRS NUMBER:				910425694
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00442
		FILM NUMBER:		10581243

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 3707 MS 1F 31
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98124
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2066552121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 N RIVERSIDE PLZ
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60606

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BOEING AIRPLANE CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730725

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Csbi4Dpr4zn9T0OtPRRLcneizN9ughx8ly6DGCwLzUcKfxjnh6w9qba3iabvq4UH
 X+yAecCJVV7AzDaU6yot9g==

 0001193125-10-024406.txt : 20100208

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K       (Mark One)       
    For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2009       or       
    For the transition period from                          to
                             Commission file number  1-442        THE BOEING COMPANY              (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (312) 544-2000    
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each
class                            

Name of each exchange on which
registered           
 
  Common Stock, $5 par value  

New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes         No    
          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes         No              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes         No              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes         No    
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer         Accelerated filer              Non-accelerated filer            (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   Smaller reporting company               Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes         No              As of June 30, 2009, there were 697,288,343 common shares outstanding held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, and the aggregate market value of the common shares (based upon the closing price of these shares
on the New York Stock Exchange) was approximately $29.6 billion.      The number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of
February 1, 2010 was 756,976,242.      (This number includes 30 million outstanding shares held by the ShareValue Trust which are not eligible to
vote.)       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Part III incorporates information by reference to the registrant s definitive proxy statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.

Table of Contents  

      THE BOEING COMPANY        Index to the Form 10-K        For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2009

PART I    

Page     

Item 1.  
      
     Business    
      
  1   

Item 1A.  
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  6   

Item 1B.  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  13   

Item 2.  
      
     Properties    
      
  13   

Item 3.  
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  14   

Item 4.  
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  14   

PART II    

Item 5.  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    
      
  15   

Item 6.  
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  16   

Item 7.  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  17   

Item 7A.  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  48   

Item 8.  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  49   

Item 9.  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  115   

Item 9A.  
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  115   

Item 9B.  
      
     Other Information    
      
  115   

PART III    

Item 10.  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  116   

Item 11.  
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  118   

Item 12.  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  118   

Item 13.  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  119   

Item 14.  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  119   

PART IV    

Item 15.  
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  120   

Signatures    
      
  125   

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  126   

Exhibit (12)   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
      
  126   

Exhibit (21)   List of Company Subsidiaries    
      
  127   

Exhibit (23)   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm    
      
  133   

Exhibit (31)(i)   CEO Section 302 Certification    
      
  134   

Exhibit (31)(ii)   CFO Section 302 Certification    
      
  135   

Exhibit (32)(i)   CEO Section 906 Certification    
      
  136   

Exhibit (32)(ii)   CFO Section 906 Certification    
      
  137   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1. Business       The Boeing Company, together with its subsidiaries (herein referred to as  Boeing,  the  Company,   we,   us,   our ), is one of the world s major aerospace
firms.      We are organized based on the products and services we offer. We operate in five principal segments:       

Commercial Airplanes;          

The three segments that comprise our Boeing Defense, Space   Security (BDS) (formerly Integrated Defense Systems) business:

Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA),          

Network   Space Systems (N SS) and          

Global Services   Support (GS S)          

Boeing Capital Corporation (BCC).         Our Other
segment classification principally includes the activities of Engineering, Operations   Technology (EO T) and certain intercompany items. EO T is an advanced research and development organization focused on innovative technologies,
improved processes and the creation of new products.       Commercial Airplanes Segment       The Commercial Airplanes segment develops, produces and markets commercial jet aircraft and provides related support services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide. We are a leading producer of
commercial aircraft and offer a family of commercial jetliners designed to meet a broad spectrum of passenger and cargo requirements of domestic and non-U.S. airlines. This family of commercial jet aircraft currently includes the 737 narrow-body
model and the 747, 767, 777 and 787 wide-body models. The Commercial Airplanes segment also offers aviation services support, aircraft modifications, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice to commercial and government customers
worldwide.       Boeing Defense, Space   Security       On January 7, 2010, we announced that Integrated Defense Systems will begin operating under the name Boeing Defense, Space   Security (BDS). Our BDS operations principally involve research, development, production,
modification and support of the following products and related systems: global strike systems, including fighters, bombers, weapons and unmanned systems; global mobility systems, including transport and tanker aircraft; rotorcraft systems, including
transport, combat and tilt-rotor aircraft; airborne surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, including command and control, battle management and airborne anti-submarine aircraft; network and tactical systems, including information and battle
management systems; intelligence and security systems; missile defense systems; space and intelligence systems, including satellites and commercial satellite launching vehicles; and space exploration. BDS is committed to providing affordable,
best-of-industry solutions and brings value to customers through its ability to solve the most complex problems utilizing expertise in large-scale systems integration, knowledge of legacy platforms and development of common network-enabled solutions
across all customers  domains. BDS  primary customer is the United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) with approximately 80% of BDS 2009 revenues being derived from this customer. Other significant revenues were derived from the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and international defense markets, civil markets and commercial satellite markets.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

    Boeing Military Aircraft Segment       This segment is engaged in the research, development, production and modification of military aircraft and precision engagement and mobility products
and services. Included in this segment are the AH-64 Apache, Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW C), CH-47 Chinook, C-17 Globemaster, EA-18G Growler Airborne Attack Electronic Aircraft, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15 Strike Eagle, F-22 Raptor,
Harpoon, International KC-767 Tanker, Joint Direct Attack Munition, P-8A Poseidon, Small Diameter Bomb, T-45 TS Goshawk and V-22 Osprey.       Network   Space Systems Segment       This segment is engaged in the research, development, production and
modification of products and services to assist our customers in transforming their operations through network integration, intelligence and surveillance systems, communications, architectures and space exploration. Included in this segment are the
Airborne Laser, Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals (FAB-T), Brigade Combat Team Modernization (BCTM) (formerly Future Combat Systems (FCS)), Future Rapid Effects System, Global Positioning System, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD),
International Space Station, Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS), Satellite Systems, SBInet, Space Payloads and Space Shuttle.       Global
Services   Support Segment       This segment is engaged in the operations, maintenance, training, upgrades and logistics support
functions for military platforms and operations. Included in this segment are the following activities: Integrated Logistics on platforms including AH-64, AV-8B, C-17, CH-47, F-15, F/A-18, F-22, GMD, International 767 Tanker and V-22; Maintenance,
Modifications and Upgrades on platforms including A-10, B-1, B-52, C-32, C-40, C-130, E-4B, E-6, KC-10, KC-135, T-38 and VC-25; Training Systems and Services on platforms including AH-64, C-17, F-15, F-16, F/A-18 and T-45; and International Support
and Advanced Global Services and Support.       Boeing Capital Corporation Segment       In the commercial aircraft market, BCC facilitates, arranges, structures and provides selective financing solutions for our Commercial Airplanes customers. In the space and defense markets, BCC primarily arranges
and structures financing solutions for our BDS government customers. BCC s portfolio consists of equipment under operating leases, finance leases, notes and other receivables, assets held for sale or re-lease and investments.       Financial and Other Business Information       See the Summary of
Business Segment Data and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information, including revenues and earnings from operations, for each of the major business segments.       Intellectual Property       We own numerous patents and have
licenses for the use of patents owned by others, which relate to our products and their manufacture. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. For example, the
U.S. government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents for government purposes. Unpatented research, development and
engineering skills, as well as certain trademarks and other intellectual property rights, also make an important contribution to our business. While our intellectual property
        
   2   

Table of Contents  

rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of each of our businesses, we do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any particular intellectual
property rights or termination of any particular intellectual property patent license agreements.       Non-U.S. Sales       See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding non-U.S. sales.       Research and Development       Research and development expenditures involve experimentation, design, development
and related test activities for defense systems, new and derivative jet aircraft including both commercial and military, advance space and other company-sponsored product development. These are expensed as incurred including amounts allocable as
reimbursable overhead costs on U.S. government contracts.      Our total research and development expense amounted to $6.5 billion, $3.8 billion and $3.9
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts are net of 787-related research and development cost sharing payments from suppliers of $0, $50 million and $130 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Research and development
expense in 2009 includes $2.7 billion of production costs related to the first three flight test 787 aircraft that cannot be sold due to the inordinate amount of rework and unique and extensive modifications made to the aircraft.      Research and development costs also include bid and proposal efforts related to government products and services, as well as costs incurred in excess of amounts
estimated to be recoverable under cost-sharing research and development agreements. Bid and proposal costs were $343 million, $330 million and $306 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Research and development highlights for each of the major business segments are discussed in more detail in Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition on
pages 21   38.       Employees       Total workforce
level at December 31, 2009 was 157,100.      As of December 31, 2009, our principal collective bargaining agreements were with the following
unions:       

Union  
      
  Percent of our Employees Represented  
      
  Status of the Agreements with the Union   
 
  The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)  
      
  18%  
      
  We have two major agreements; one expiring in June of 2010 and one in September of 2012.   

The Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA)  
      
  13%  
      
  We have two major agreements expiring in October of 2012.   

The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)  
      
  2%  
      
  We have one major agreement expiring in April of 2010.   
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

    Competition      The
commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. We face aggressive international competitors, including Airbus, who are intent on increasing their market share. We are focused on improving our processes and
continuing cost reduction efforts. We continue to leverage our extensive customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world to provide a
higher level of customer satisfaction and productivity.      BDS faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin
Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company and General Dynamics Corporation. Non-U.S. companies such as BAE Systems and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS), the parent of Airbus, continue to pursue a strategic
presence in the U.S. market by strengthening their North American operations and partnering with U.S. defense companies. In addition, certain of our competitors have occasionally formed teams with other competitors to address specific customer
requirements. BDS expects the trend of strong competition to continue into 2010 with many international firms pursuing announced intentions of increasing their U.S. presence.       Regulatory Matters       Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of our markets. We deal with numerous U.S.
government agencies and entities, including but not limited to all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA and the Department of Homeland Security. Similar government authorities exist in our international markets.       U.S. Government Contracts.  The U.S. government, and other governments, may terminate any of our government contracts at their convenience as well as for
default based on our failure to meet specified performance measurements. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for work completed and allowable termination or
cancellation costs. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, generally the U.S. government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and can require us to pay the difference between the original contract price
and the cost to re-procure the contract items, net of the work accepted from the original contract. The U.S. government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default.       Commercial Aircraft.  In the United States, our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with Federal Aviation Administration regulations governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and
installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. Internationally, similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational approvals. These requirements are generally administered by the national
aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the European Joint Aviation Authorities.       Environmental.  Our
operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and
wastes. We continually assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters to ensure our operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.      Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. These costs often are
allowable costs under our contracts with the U.S. government. It is reasonably possible that continued environmental compliance could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if more stringent clean-up
standards are imposed, additional contamination is discovered and/or clean-up costs are higher than estimated.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   A Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) has joint and several liability under existing U.S. environmental laws. Where we
have been designated a PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency, we are potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at our facilities or former facilities or
at third-party sites. If we were required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the statutory framework would allow us to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. For additional information relating to environmental contingencies, see Note
11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       International.  Our international sales are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. governmental regulations
and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investment, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. International sales are also subject to varying currency, political and economic risks.
      Raw Materials       We are highly dependent on the
availability of essential materials, parts and subassemblies from our suppliers and subcontractors. The most important raw materials required for our aerospace products are aluminum (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions), titanium (sheet, plate,
forgings and extrusions) and composites (including carbon and boron). Although alternative sources generally exist for these raw materials, qualification of the sources could take a year or more. Many major components and product equipment items are
procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of companies.       Suppliers       We are dependent upon the ability of a large number of suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance specifications, quality standards and delivery schedules at
anticipated costs. While we maintain an extensive qualification and performance surveillance system to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to meet commitments could adversely affect
production schedules and program/contract profitability, thereby jeopardizing our ability to fulfill commitments to our customers. We are also dependent on the availability of energy sources, such as electricity, at affordable prices. A number of
our suppliers have made assertions for higher prices or other contractual compensation relief which could affect program/contract profitability.       Seasonality       No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal.       Other Information       Boeing was originally incorporated in the
State of Washington in 1916 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1934. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 N. Riverside, Chicago, Illinois 60606 and our telephone number is (312) 544-2000.      General information about us can be found at www.boeing.com. The information contained on or connected to our web site is not incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well
as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC s public reference room
at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Boeing.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements       This report, as well as our Annual Report to Shareholders, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications, contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as  may,   will,   should,   expects,   intends,   projects,   believes,   estimates,   targets, 
 anticipates  and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact.      Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are
subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors, including those set forth in the  Risk Factors  section below, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from
these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement herein speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.         Item 1A. Risk Factors       An
investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future trends may differ materially from our past performance due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, the following:
       We depend heavily upon commercial airline customers, our suppliers and the worldwide market, which are subject to unique risks.
        We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of major commercial airlines, some of which have
encountered financial difficulties.  We can make no assurance that any customer will purchase additional products or services from us after our contract with the customer ends. In addition, financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of any of
the major commercial airlines could significantly reduce our revenues, even under existing contracts, and limit our opportunity to generate profits from those customers. Several commercial airlines, including certain of our customers, have filed for
or emerged from bankruptcy protection.       Our ability to deliver aircraft on time depends on a variety of factors, which are subject to
unique risks.  Our ability to deliver jet aircraft on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials (such as aluminum, titanium and composites) and internally and
supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, performance of suppliers and subcontractors and regulatory certification. The failure of any or all of these factors could result in significant
out-of-sequence work and disrupted process flows adversely affect production schedules and program/contract profitability, the latter through increased costs as well as possible customer and/or supplier claims or assertions. In addition, the
introduction of new commercial aircraft programs and major derivative aircraft involves increased risk associated with meeting development, production and certification schedules. For example, recent modifications required on the side-of-body
section of our 787 aircraft have resulted in testing and delivery delays.       Market conditions have a significant impact on our ability
to sell aircraft into the future.  The worldwide market for commercial jet aircraft is predominantly driven by long-term trends in airline passenger and cargo traffic. The principal factors underlying long-term traffic growth are sustained
economic growth and political stability, both in developed and emerging countries. Demand for our commercial aircraft is further influenced by airline industry profitability, world trade policies, government-to-government relations, terrorism,
disease outbreaks, environmental constraints imposed upon aircraft operations, technological changes and price and other competitive factors.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Our commercial aircraft customers may request to cancel, modify or reschedule orders.  We
generally make sales under aircraft purchase agreements that may, for a variety of reasons, become the subject of cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the airline industry and
our customers could result in customer requests to reschedule or cancel contractual orders. Our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance and failure to deliver airplanes in accordance with such provisions could result
in cancellations and/or claims for compensation. Any such cancellations, modification, rescheduling or claims could significantly reduce our backlog, revenues, profitability and cash flows.       Our commercial aircraft production rates could change.  Production rate reductions could cause us to incur disruption and other costs and result
in infrastructure costs being allocated to a smaller quantity of airplanes, all of which could reduce our profitability. The introduction of new aircraft program and/or higher orders for our aircraft could lead to production rate increases in order
to meet the delivery schedules. Failure to successfully implement any production rate changes could lead to extended delivery commitments, and depending on the length of delay in meeting delivery commitments, additional costs and customers
rescheduling their deliveries or terminating their related contract with us.        We depend heavily on U.S. government contracts, which are subject to
unique risks.        In 2009, 43% of our revenues were derived from U.S. government contracts. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with
the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control.       The funding of U.S. government programs is
subject to congressional appropriations . Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may last several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Changes in military strategy and priorities may affect our future
procurement opportunities and existing programs. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. In addition, the U.S. DoD budget is under
pressure due to competing national priorities. The termination or reduction of funding for existing or new U.S. government programs could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flow and financial position.       The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts.  The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and
subcontracts with us, without prior notice and at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of one or more of our major programs or contracts could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.       Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S.
government agencies . U.S. government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be
improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of
any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and
administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government.       Our business is subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations.  We are sometimes subject to certain U.S. government inquiries
and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   
     
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other
requirements.  These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial
condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a negative effect on our reputation and
ability to secure future U.S. government contracts.        We enter into fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses if we have cost
overruns.        Many of our contracts in BDS and most of our contracts in Commercial Airplanes are on a fixed-price basis. Approximately 50% of BDS
revenues are generated from fixed-price contracts. While firm fixed price contracts enable us to benefit from performance improvements, cost reductions and efficiencies, they also subject us to the risk of reduced margins or incurring losses if we
are unable to achieve estimated costs and revenues. If our estimated costs exceed our estimated price, we recognize reach-forward losses which can significantly affect our reported results.      The long term nature of many of our contracts and programs makes the process of estimating costs and revenues on fixed price contracts inherently risky. For example
commercial jet aircraft are normally sold on a firm fixed-price basis with an indexed price escalation clause. These escalation clauses account for economic fluctuations over the period of time from sale to delivery which can span many years. A
price escalation formula based on pre-defined factors is used to determine the final price of the airplane at the time of customer delivery. Changes in future estimates of the underlying price escalation index can significantly impact estimated
revenues and margins in any quarter. Fixed price contracts in our BDS business often contain price incentives and penalties tied to performance which can be difficult to estimate and have significant impacts on margins. In addition, some of our
contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, our sales price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition.      Fixed-price development work inherently has more uncertainty than work pursuant to production contracts and, therefore, more variability in estimates of the cost to
complete the work. Fixed price development contracts inherently have more uncertainty than fixed price production contracts. Examples of significant BDS fixed-price development contracts include AEW C, International KC-767 Tankers and commercial
and military satellites. Examples of significant Commercial Airplanes development programs include the 787 and 747-8. Many of these development programs have very complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule
delays and higher costs to complete. Additionally, price escalation factors may also impact margins by reducing the estimated price of airplanes delivered in the future. Both of these factors may ultimately result in a material charge if the program
has or is determined to have a reach forward loss. Successful performance depends on our ability to meet production specifications and delivery rates. If we are unable to perform and deliver to contract requirements, our contract price could be
reduced through the incorporation of liquidated damages, termination of the contract for default, or other financially significant exposure. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to perform the work, the price we will eventually be
paid and, in the case of commercial programs, the number of units to include in the initial accounting quantity. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, future events could result in
either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. Changes to estimates of the program accounting quantity, production costs and rates, learning curve, costs of derivative aircraft, customer negotiations/settlements, supplier claims and
certification issues could also result in lower margins or reach-forward losses. We may continue to experience technical and quality issues requiring further delays in schedule or revisions to our cost estimates.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   On Commercial Airplanes development programs our ability to sell test aircraft or initial units produced can also
affect our results. For example in 2009 we determined that three of the 787 flight test aircraft could not be sold. This resulted in $2.7 billion being accounted for as research and development expense as opposed to being capitalized as inventory.
Our inability to sell additional test aircraft could increase future research and development expenses.        We enter into cost-type contracts which
also carry risks.        Approximately 50% of BDS revenues are generated from cost-type contracting arrangements. Some of these are development
programs that have complex design and technical challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial risks are
primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise. Programs whose contracts are primarily cost-type include GMD, BCTM (formerly FCS), P-8A Poseidon, Proprietary programs,
Airborne Laser, JTRS, FAB-T and the EA-18G Growler.        We enter into contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments that subject us to risks.
       Contracts in the commercial satellite industry and certain government satellite contracts include in-orbit incentive payments. These in-orbit
payments may be paid over time after final satellite acceptance or paid in full prior to final satellite acceptance. In both cases, the in-orbit incentive payment is at risk if the satellite does not perform to specifications for up to 15 years
after acceptance. The net present value of in-orbit incentive fees we ultimately expect to realize is recognized as revenue in the construction period. If the satellite fails to meet contractual performance criteria, customers will not be
obligated to continue making in-orbit payments and/or we may be required to provide refunds to the customer and incur significant charges.        We use estimates in accounting for many contracts and programs. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.        Contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our
contracts and programs, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract or program because costs also include
expected increases in wages, material prices and allocated fixed costs. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to
assess anticipated performance. Suppliers  assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. Estimates of award fees are also used in sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards.      Under program accounting, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program tooling costs and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged as cost of
sales by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and
anticipated contracts limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a
program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling and routine warranty costs for the total program. Several factors
determine accounting quantity, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers and market studies. Such estimates are
        
   9   

Table of Contents  

reconsidered throughout the life of our programs. Changes in underlying assumptions, supplier performance, circumstances or estimates concerning the selection of the accounting quantity or
changes in market conditions, along with a failure to realize predicted costs, may adversely affect future financial performance.      Because of the
significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in
underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. For additional information on our accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under  Management s
Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Policies Contract Accounting/Program Accounting  on pages 43-45 and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 56-57 of this Form 10-K.        Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions
in future periods.        Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other
postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to
financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement income or expense for the following year are
the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and expected future medical inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to
equity through a reduction or increase to Other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement plan accounting policies, see  Management s Discussion and
Analysis Critical Accounting Policies Postretirement Plans  on pages 46-47 of this Form 10-K. Although GAAP expense and pension or other postretirement contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP
expense would also likely affect the amount of cash or common stock we would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA) and discretionary contributions to improve the plans  funded status.        Some of our and our suppliers 
workforces are represented by labor unions, which may lead to work stoppages.        Approximately 57,000 employees, which constitute approximately 36%
of our total workforce, are union represented as of December 31, 2009. We experienced a work stoppage in 2008 when a labor strike halted commercial aircraft and certain BMA program production and we may experience additional work stoppages in
the future, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our relationships, currently with 14 different U.S. labor organizations and 7 different non-U.S. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to meet the
unions  requirements without impacting our financial condition. The unions may also limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Union actions at suppliers can also affect us. Work stoppages and instability in our union relationships
could delay the production and/or development of our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues which would adversely affect our operations.        Competition within our markets may reduce our procurement of future contracts and sales.       The markets in
which we operate are highly competitive. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the
capability to manufacture products or
        
   10   

Table of Contents  

provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us
for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenues and market share.        We derive a significant portion of our revenues from non-U.S. sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in other countries.        In 2009, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for approximately 42% of our revenues. We expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As
a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:       

changes in regulatory requirements;          

domestic and international government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation
requirements;          

fluctuations in international currency exchange rates;          

volatility in foreign political and economic environments and changes in foreign national priorities and budgets, which can lead to delays or fluctuations in
orders;          

the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants;          

the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases;          

uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees;          

imposition of taxes, export controls, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions;          

the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries;          

compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; and          

economic and geopolitical developments and conditions.         While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future.        The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant and of government inquiries and investigations involving our business is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could result in significant
monetary payments and have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.        We are defendants in a number of
litigation matters. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any
of these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are sometimes subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business due, among other things, to our business
relationships with the U.S government, the heavily regulated nature of our industry, and in the case of environmental proceedings, our ownership of certain property. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling
against us, which could result in significant monetary payments (including possible environmental remediation costs) and a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

     A substantial deterioration in the financial condition of the commercial airline industry or significant changes
to the financial or regulatory landscape could have a significant impact on Boeing Capital Corporation, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.        BCC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, has substantially all of its portfolio concentrated among commercial airline customers. If terrorist attacks, a serious health
epidemic, significant regulatory actions in response to environmental concerns, increases in fuel related costs or other exogenous events were to have an adverse impact on the airline industry, increased requests for financing, significant defaults
by airline customers, repossessions of aircraft and/or airline bankruptcies and restructurings could negatively impact the strength of BCC s portfolio and our operating results. In addition, a significant deterioration in the aircraft financing
environment, or significant regulatory reforms that increase costs to companies like BCC, could impact BCC s financial position and operating results. Any of these events could have a negative effect on our earnings, cash flows and/or financial
position.        We may be unable to obtain debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments at competitive rates, on commercially reasonable
terms or in sufficient amounts.        We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. If we were
called upon to fund all outstanding financing commitments, our market liquidity may not be sufficient. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for
debt. These factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance or outlook or credit ratings. The occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our
operations and contractual or financing commitments.        We may not realize the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint
ventures/strategic alliances or divestitures.        As part of our business strategy, we may merge with or acquire businesses, form joint
ventures/strategic alliances and divest operations. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities
or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles,
charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. Consolidations of joint ventures could also impact our results of operations or financial position. While we believe that we have established
appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. Divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through
guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results.        Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.        We are exposed to liabilities that are unique
to the products and services we provide. While we maintain insurance for certain risks and, in some circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government, insurance cannot be obtained to protect against all risks and liabilities. It
is therefore possible that the amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

     Business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and
expenses.        Our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology
attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. Any of these disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our
expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price.         Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not Applicable.         Item 2. Properties
      We occupied approximately 86 million square feet of floor space on December 31, 2009 for manufacturing, warehousing, engineering,
administration and other productive uses, of which approximately 96% was located in the United States.      The following table provides a summary of the
floor space by business:       

*  
     
  Excludes rent-free space furnished by U.S. government landlord of 1,076 square feet.     

**  
     
  Other includes BCC; EO  Corporate Headquarters; and Boeing Shared Services Group.        At December 31, 2009, our segments occupied facilities at the following major locations that occupied in excess of 74 million square feet of floor space:       

Commercial Airplanes   Greater Seattle, WA; North Charleston, SC          

Boeing Defense, Space   Security   Greater Los Angeles, CA; Greater Seattle, WA; Greater St. Louis, MO; Philadelphia, PA; San Antonio, TX;
Huntsville, AL; Mesa, AZ; Wichita, KS; Houston, TX; and Greater Washington, DC          

Other   Chicago, IL and Greater Seattle, WA         Most runways and taxiways that we use are located on airport properties owned by others and are used jointly with others. Our rights to use such facilities are provided for under long-term leases with municipal, county or other government
authorities. In addition, the U.S. government furnishes us certain office space, installations and equipment at U.S. government bases for use in connection with various contract activities.      We believe that our major properties are adequate for our present needs and, as supplemented by planned improvements and construction, expect them to remain adequate
for the foreseeable future.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

      Item 3. Legal Proceedings       Currently, we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. For a discussion of contingencies related to legal proceedings, see Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which is hereby incorporated by reference.       BSSI/SES New Skies       During 2007, the SES New Skies (New Skies) NSS-8 satellite, a Boeing 702 model spacecraft, was declared a loss when the Sea Launch Zenit-3SL vehicle carrying the satellite experienced an anomaly during the launch
that destroyed the rocket and the payload. In the event of such a launch failure, New Skies had an option under the NSS-8 contract to order a replacement satellite. On December 23, 2009, the parties executed a confidential settlement agreement
with respect to all claims arising from the matter.       Santa Susana Field Laboratory       We possess a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit, issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region (the California Board), which limits the permissible level of
certain constituents in storm water discharged from various outfalls at our Santa Susana Field Laboratory site. On June 11, 2008, the California Board issued a Notice of Violation informing us that the California Board has identified 24
discharge violations from our self-monitoring reports covering the period October 1, 2006, through March 31, 2008, and in subsequent communications we have been informed that the California Board believes there may be an additional 11
exceedences for a total of 35 potential discharge violations through February 28, 2009. Each violation, if established, could give rise to assessment of an administrative penalty of up to $10,000, or $25,000 if the matter is
ultimately resolved by the California Department of Justice, plus possible additional assessments based upon the volume of water discharged.        
 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
quarter ended December 31, 2009.        
   14   

Table of Contents  

    PART II          Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The principal market for our common stock is the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol BA. The number of holders of common stock as of February 1, 2010, was approximately 222,498. Additional
information required by this item is incorporated by reference from Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.       Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities       The following table provides information about purchases we made during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 of equity securities
that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:       (Dollars in millions, except per share data)        

(1)     
     
    We purchased an aggregate of 47,931 shares transferred to us from employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of
restricted stock during the period. We made no other share repurchases during the quarter ended December 31, 2009.      

(2)     
     
    On October 29, 2007, the Board approved the repurchase of up to $7 billion of common stock (the Program). Unless terminated earlier by a Board resolution,
the Program will expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase.            
   15   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6. Selected Financial Data        Five-Year Summary (Unaudited)        
    Cash dividends have been paid on common stock every year since 1942.       

(a)   
     
      In 2006, we realigned BDS into three capabilities-driven businesses: BMA (formerly
Precision Engagement and Mobility Systems), N SS and GS S (formerly Support Systems). As part of the realignment, certain advanced systems and research and development activities previously included in the Other segment transferred to the
new BDS segments. Effective January 1, 2009, 2008 and 2007, certain programs were realigned between BDS segments. Prior years have been recast for segment realignments.      

(b)   
     
      In 2006, we adopted an accounting standard that required us to reflect the funded
status of the pension and postretirement plans in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. This reduced shareholders  equity by $8.2 billion. Retrospective application is not permitted.      

(c)   
     
    Computation represents actual shares outstanding as of December 31 and excludes treasury shares and the outstanding shares held by the ShareValue Trust.

(d)   
     
    Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting standard requiring noncontrolling interests to be separately presented as a component of
shareholders  equity. Prior years have been adjusted to conform to the new standard.            
   16   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations        Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition        Overview       We are a global market leader in design, development, manufacture, sale and support of commercial
jetliners, military aircraft, satellites, missile defense, human space flight and launch systems and services. We are one of the two major manufacturers of 100+ seat airplanes for the worldwide commercial airline industry and one of the largest
defense contractors in the U.S. While our principal operations are in the U.S., we rely extensively on a network of partners, key suppliers and subcontractors around the world.      Our strategy is centered on successful execution in healthy core businesses   Commercial Airplanes and Boeing Defense, Space   Security (BDS)   supplemented and supported by Boeing Capital
Corporation (BCC). Taken together, these core businesses have historically generated substantial earnings and cash flow that permit us to invest in new products and services that open new frontiers in aerospace. We focus on producing the airplanes
the market demands and we price our products to provide a fair return for our shareholders while continuing to find new ways to improve efficiency and quality. BDS integrates its resources in defense, intelligence, communications, security and space
to deliver capability-driven solutions to its customers at reduced costs. Our strategy is to leverage our core businesses to capture key next-generation programs while expanding our presence in adjacent and international markets, underscored by an
intense focus on growth and productivity. Our strategy also benefits as the cyclicality of commercial and defense markets often offset. BCC delivers value by supporting our business units and managing overall financing exposure.      Consolidated Results of Operations        Revenues    
   (Dollars in millions)        
    Revenues in 2009 increased by $7,372 million due to higher revenues in Commercial Airplanes and BDS. Commercial Airplanes revenues
increased by $5,788, primarily due to higher commercial airplane deliveries in 2009. Deliveries in 2008 were lower as a result of a labor strike in the prior year. Increases were partially offset by decreases in commercial aviation services and
intercompany revenues. BDS revenues increased by $1,614 million, primarily due to higher revenues in Global Services   Support (GS S) and Boeing Military Airplanes (BMA), partially offset by decreases in Network   Space Systems
(N SS). BCC revenues decreased by $43 million during the year primarily due to a decrease in the customer financing portfolio. Other segment revenues decreased by $402 million partly due to higher revenues in the prior year from the sale of four
C-17 aircraft held under operating lease. Lower Unallocated items and eliminations improved revenues by $415 million primarily due to lower P-8A Poseidon program (P-8A) intercompany revenues recognized by Commercial Airplanes in 2009 compared with
2008.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   The decrease in 2008 revenues of $5,478 million compared with 2007, is primarily due to lower revenues at Commercial
Airplanes. Commercial Airplanes revenues decreased by $5,123 million, primarily as a result of decreases in new airplane deliveries reflecting the effects of the labor strike, partially offset by higher intercompany revenues and higher pre-strike
deliveries and model mix. We delivered 104 fewer airplanes than expected during 2008 due to the strike. This reduced revenue by approximately $6.4 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. BDS revenues were unchanged as revenue
growth in GS S was offset by decreases in BMA and N SS. BCC revenues decreased by $112 million primarily due to lower interest income on financing receivables and notes and a decrease in the customer financing portfolio. Other segment
revenues increased by $259 million primarily due to the sale of four C-17 aircraft during 2008, that were held under an operating lease. Unallocated items and eliminations changed by $497 million, primarily due to the intercompany elimination of
P-8A revenues recognized by Commercial Airplanes.       Earnings From Operations       The following table summarizes our earnings/(loss) from operations:       (Dollars in millions)        
    Operating earnings in 2009 decreased by $1,854 million compared with 2008. Commercial Airplanes earnings
decreased by $1,769 million primarily due to $2,693 million of costs related to the first three 787 flight test aircraft included in research and development expense as a result of our determination in August 2009 that these aircraft could not be
sold. The earnings decrease is also attributable to reach-forward losses on the 747 program which grew by $1,352 million in 2009 which is an increase of $667 million over 2008. Lower commercial aviation services and intercompany earnings also
contributed to lower 2009 earnings. These decreases were partially offset by higher commercial airplane deliveries in 2009 compared with 2008. BDS earnings increased by $67 million compared with 2008 primarily due to higher earnings in the BMA
segment partially offset by lower earnings in the N SS segment. BCC operating earnings decreased $36 million reflecting lower revenues, higher impairment expense and a provision for losses, partially offset by lower interest expense. Other
segment losses decreased by $155 million primarily due to recognition of pre-tax expense of $82 million in the prior year to increase the allowance for losses on customer financing receivables and lower environmental remediation charges compared
with the prior year. Unallocated items and eliminations in 2009 reduced earnings by $271 million compared with 2008, which is further explained in the table below.      Operating earnings in 2008 decreased by $1,880 million compared with 2007. Commercial Airplanes earnings decreased by $2,398 million compared with the same period in 2007, primarily due to fewer new airplane
deliveries resulting from the strike, increased program infrastructure costs related to the strike and revised schedules on 787 and 747-8, and a charge taken on the 747-8 program. Commercial Airplanes  research and development expense decreased
by $124 million to $2,838 million compared with the same period in 2007, primarily due to lower spending on 787 partially offset by higher spending on 747-8 and lower supplier development cost sharing payments. BDS earnings decreased by $208 million
compared with 2007 primarily due to lower earnings in the BMA segment resulting from charges taken on the Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW C). BCC operating
        
   18   

Table of Contents  

earnings decreased $72 million reflecting lower revenues and a provision for losses partially offset by lower interest expense. Unallocated items and eliminations in 2008 improved by $774 million
compared with 2007, which is further explained in the table below.      The most significant items included in Unallocated items and eliminations are shown
in the following table:       (Dollars in millions)        
    The reduction in Share-based plans expense in 2008 is primarily due to the expiration of certain Performance
Shares during 2008 and higher expense acceleration during 2007, resulting from six payouts compared with zero payouts in 2008.      Deferred compensation
expense increased by $381 million in 2009 and decreased by $274 million in 2008. The year over year changes in deferred compensation expense are primarily driven by changes in our stock price and broad stock market conditions.      Other unallocated items and eliminations expense increased by $154 million in 2009 primarily due to timing of intercompany expense allocations, elimination of profit
on intercompany items and a more favorable insurance adjustment in the same periods of the prior year. Other unallocated items and expense in 2008 includes a charge related to satellite litigation of $100 million, offset by lower performance-based
compensation in 2008.      Unallocated pension and other postretirement expense represents the difference between costs recognized under Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles in the United States of America (GAAP) in the consolidated financial statements and federal cost accounting standards required to be utilized by our business segments for U.S. government contracting purposes. We recorded net
periodic benefit cost related to pensions and other postretirement benefits of $1,816 million, $1,132 million and $1,773 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Not all net periodic benefit cost is recognized in earnings in the period incurred
because it is allocated to production as product costs and a portion remains in inventory at the end of the reporting period. A portion of pension and other postretirement expense is recorded in the business segments and the remainder is included in
unallocated pension and other postretirement expense. Earnings from operations included the following amounts allocated to business segments and Other unallocated items and eliminations.       
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Other Earnings Items        (Dollars in millions)        
    Other income decreased by $273 million and $237 million in 2009 and 2008. The decreases are primarily driven by
a reduction in investment income as a result of lower interest rates and lower investment balances. Interest and debt expense increased by $137 million compared with 2008 due to additional debt issued in 2009.      For a discussion related to Income Taxes, see Note 5.      Backlog 
     Our backlog at December 31 was as follows:       
    Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced orders for which definitive
contracts have not been executed, and unobligated U.S. and non-U.S. government contract funding. The decrease in contractual backlog during 2009 was due to deliveries in excess of orders, changes in projected revenue escalation and cancellations of
orders. The increase in backlog during 2008 was due to orders in excess of deliveries for our 737, 767, 777 and 787 programs.      Unobligated backlog
includes U.S. and non-U.S. government definitive contracts for which funding have not been authorized. The decrease in unobligated backlog during 2009 is primarily due to decreases at BDS of $8,904 million compared with 2008 partly due to a partial
termination for convenience by the U.S. Army of the Brigade Combat Team Modernization (BCTM) (formerly the Future Combat Systems (FCS)) System Development and Demonstration contract relating to Manned Ground Vehicles and associated systems and
equipment. Approved funding of existing multi-year contracts including the BCTM, V-22, Chinook, Proprietary and Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) programs also reduced unobligated backlog. The decrease in Unobligated backlog during 2008 is
primarily due to decreases at BDS of $2,174 million compared with 2007 primarily due to funding of existing multi-year contracts including the F/A-18, BCTM and F-22 programs. These decreases were partially offset by multi-year procurement contracts
awarded on the V-22 and Chinook programs.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition        Commercial Airplanes        Business Environment and Trends 
      Airline Industry Environment  2008 and 2009 were extremely challenging for the world s airlines as key external business factors (oil prices,
economic growth, exchange rates, financing terms) experienced high levels of volatility. In the first half of 2008, airlines focused on adapting to spiking oil prices which peaked close to $150/barrel. In autumn 2008, the airlines  focus
shifted to the fallout of the global credit crisis and recession as fuel prices fell below $40/barrel for the first time since 2004, and in 2009 passenger and cargo traffic experienced their worst ever declines. This business environment curtailed
the airline industry profit recovery that started in 2006. As a result, the global airline industry has now reported losses in seven out of the last ten years, and over 30 airlines have entered bankruptcy since the beginning of 2008.      In this challenging environment, airlines are adapting their operations to meet the realities of the markets in which they operate. Airlines reduced global passenger
capacity by 2% in 2009 through a combination of frequency and route cuts in unprofitable markets, lower daily airplane utilization (flight hours per day) and parking/scrapping of older generation airplanes. Airlines are also replacing older less
fuel efficient airplanes, reducing non-fuel costs and finding new ways to partner through alliances or via mergers and acquisitions.      These conditions
have caused customers to request cancellations, modifications, or rescheduling of their existing orders and advance payment schedules to meet revised fleet plans or address financing and cash flow issues. Whether such requests will result in a
material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow or financial position depends on a number of factors including whether the request is granted, the type of aircraft, how much compensation is paid to us for costs already incurred and our ability to
reschedule other orders to replace those canceled, modified, or rescheduled.      Near-term global airline industry indicators are improving although many
uncertainties persist. Global economic recovery has begun. Although it is expected to vary significantly by region both in terms of speed and magnitude, world economic growth is forecast to grow moderately in 2010 following contraction in 2009. As a
result, airline industry forecasts generally indicate global passenger traffic returning close to 2008 levels in 2010 with many emerging markets posting growth over 2009. Air cargo traffic is forecast to grow above the long-term trend rates in 2010
following two years of contraction which have taken traffic back to 2002 and 2003 levels. Due to these improving demand conditions, airlines are expected to see significantly smaller financial losses globally in 2010.      Beyond the near-term market uncertainties, the long-term outlook for the industry remains positive due to the fundamental drivers of air travel growth: economic
growth and the increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization and improved airline services driven by liberalization of air traffic rights between countries. Our 20-year forecast is for a long-term average growth rate of
5% per year for passenger and cargo traffic based on a projected average annual worldwide real economic growth rate of 3%. Based on long-term global economic growth projections, and factoring in increased utilization of the worldwide airplane
fleet and requirements to replace older airplanes, we project a $3.2 trillion market for 29,000 new airplanes over the next 20 years.      The industry
remains vulnerable to near-term exogenous developments including disease outbreaks (such as avian or H1N1 flus), terrorism and increased global environmental regulations.      Industry Competitiveness  The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. We expect the existing long-term downward trend in passenger revenue yields worldwide
(measured in real terms) to continue into the foreseeable future. Market liberalization in
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

Europe and Asia has enabled low-cost airlines to continue gaining market share. These airlines have increased the downward pressure on airfares. This results in continued cost pressures for all
airlines and price pressure on our products. Major productivity gains are essential to ensure a favorable market position at acceptable profit margins.     Continued access to global markets remains vital to our ability to fully realize our sales potential and long-term investment returns. Approximately 10% of Commercial Airplanes  contractual backlog in dollar terms is with U.S.
airlines.     We face aggressive international competitors who are intent on increasing their market share. They offer competitive products and have access
to most of the same customers and suppliers. Airbus has historically invested heavily to create a family of products to compete with ours. Regional jet makers Embraer and Bombardier, coming from the less than 100-seat commercial jet market, continue
to develop larger and more capable airplanes. Additionally, other competitors from Russia, China and Japan are likely to enter the 70 to 190 seat aircraft market over the next few years. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on
pricing and other competitive factors and we expect these pressures to continue or intensify in the coming years.     Worldwide, airplane sales are
generally conducted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuating exchange rates affect the profit potential of our major competitors, all of whom have significant costs in other currencies. A decline of the U.S. dollar relative to their local currencies as
experienced in the second half of 2009 puts pressure on competitors  revenues and profits. Competitors often respond by aggressively reducing costs and increasing productivity, thereby improving their longer-term competitive posture. Airbus has
announced such initiatives targeting overhead cost savings, a reduction in its development cycle and a significant increase in overall productivity through 2012. If the U.S. dollar strengthens again, Airbus can use the improved efficiency to fund
product development, gain market share through pricing and/or improve earnings.     We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost-reduction
efforts. We continue to leverage our extensive customer support services network which includes aviation support, spares, training, maintenance documents and technical advice for airlines throughout the world. This enables us to provide a higher
level of customer satisfaction and productivity. These efforts enhance our ability to pursue pricing strategies that enable us to price competitively.       Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues       Year-over-year changes in Revenue are shown in the following table:       
    The increase in revenue of $5,788 million in 2009 from 2008 is primarily attributable to higher new airplane deliveries partially
offset by lower intercompany revenues. Prior year revenues were negatively impacted by the 2008 IAM strike. The decrease in revenues from commercial aviation services business was driven by economic conditions.      The decrease in revenue of $5,123 million in 2008 from 2007 is primarily attributable to lower new airplane deliveries. The IAM strike resulted in 104 airplane
deliveries moving out of 2008 which reduced 2008 revenues by $6,406 million. The strike impact was partially offset by higher intercompany revenues of $804 million, and higher pre-strike deliveries, net of model mix changes, of $726 million.
Aircraft trading activity decreased by $264 million as a result of fewer sales of used aircraft. Revenues in commercial aviation services business increased by $17 million driven by increased spares and services revenue offset by decreased passenger
to freighter conversions.      Commercial jet aircraft deliveries as of December 31, were as follows:       
     
     Earnings From Operations       Earnings
from operations for 2009 decreased by $1,769 million when compared to 2008, primarily due to the reclassification from inventory to research and development expense of $2,481 million related to the three 787 flight test aircraft previously recorded
as inventory as of July 31, 2009. Additional production costs incurred between August and December 2009 of $212 million related to those flight-test airplanes were also included in research and development expense. Those amounts were partially
offset by a $148 million decrease in other research and development expense. The decrease in earnings is also attributable to reach-forward losses on the 747 program which grew by $1,352 million in 2009 compared with losses of $685 million in 2008.
The 2009 reach-forward losses were primarily due to increased production costs, reductions in projected delivery price increases associated with escalation and the difficult market conditions affecting the 747-8. Lower commercial aviation services
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

revenues and margins reduced earnings by $245 million. Higher infrastructure cost allocations related to the 787 and 747-8 schedule delays announced in 2008 and 2009 and infrastructure costs
incurred during the 2008 IAM strike reduced earnings by $199 million. Increased period and other costs reduced earnings by $47 million. These decreases were partially offset by increased earnings of $1,934 million related to new airplane deliveries.
     Earnings from operations decreased by $2,398 million in 2008 when compared to 2007, with operating margins decreasing 6.5 percentage points to 4.2%.
Lower new airplane deliveries, partially offset by higher intercompany revenues, reduced earnings by $1,400 million. A charge for a reach-forward loss on the 747 program resulting from increases to estimated costs for development and production of
747-8 derivatives reduced 2008 earnings by $685 million. Infrastructure cost allocations related to the 787 and 747-8 schedule delays and infrastructure costs incurred during the IAM strike reduced earnings by $287 million. The 787 and 747-8
schedule delays resulted in production programs receiving larger allocations of current and future infrastructure costs and reduced margins on 2008 deliveries, while the program infrastructure costs incurred during the IAM strike decreased margins
on airplanes delivered during the second half of the year. Increased period and other costs reduced earnings by $108 million. A reduction in commercial aviation services volume and mix-related earnings of $42 million was primarily due to a decrease
in volume on passenger to freighter conversion programs. Lower research and development costs improved earnings by $124 million.       Backlog  Firm
backlog represents orders for products and services where no contingencies remain before Boeing and the customer are required to perform. Backlog does not include prospective orders where customer controlled contingencies remain, such as the
customers receiving approval from their Board of Directors, shareholders or government and completing financing arrangements. All such contingencies must be satisfied or have expired prior to recording a new firm order even if satisfying such
conditions is highly certain. Firm orders exclude options. A number of our customers may have contractual remedies that may be implicated by program delays. We continue to address customer claims and requests for other contractual relief as they
arise. However, once orders are included in firm backlog, orders remain in backlog until canceled or fulfilled, although the value of orders is adjusted as changes to price and schedule are agreed to with customers.      The decrease in contractual backlog during 2009 was due to deliveries in excess of orders, changes in projected revenue escalation and cancellations of orders. The
increase in backlog during 2008 was due to orders in excess of deliveries for our 737, 767, 777 and 787 programs.       Accounting Quantity  The
accounting quantity is our estimate of the quantity of airplanes that will be produced for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts and is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and costs of these
contracts. It is a key determinant of the gross margins we recognize on sales of individual airplanes throughout a program s life. Estimation of each program s accounting quantity takes into account several factors that are indicative of
the demand for that program, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers and market studies. We review our program accounting quantities quarterly.      Commercial aircraft production costs include a significant amount of infrastructure costs, a portion of which does not vary with production rates. As the amount of time needed to produce the accounting quantity
increases, the average cost of the accounting quantity also increases as these infrastructure costs are included in the total cost estimates. This has the effect of decreasing the gross margin and related earnings provided other factors do not
change.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   The accounting quantity for each program may include units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract,
and units anticipated to be under contract in the reasonable future (anticipated orders). In developing total program estimates all of these items within the accounting quantity must be considered. The table below provides details as of
December 31:       

*  
     
  The accounting quantity for the 787 program will be determined in the year of first airplane delivery, targeted for 2010.    

1     
     
    Undelivered units are not adjusted for cancellations subsequent to December 31, 2008.      

2     
     
    Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries plus undelivered firm orders.          737 Program  The accounting quantity for the 737 program increased by 400 units during 2009 due to the program s normal progression of obtaining additional
orders and delivering aircraft. Production rates remained unchanged in 2009.       747 Program  There was no change in the accounting quantity for the
747 program during 2009.      In 2008, we recorded a charge of $685 million to recognize a reach-forward loss. The charge was primarily related to higher
than anticipated costs due to late changes to wing design which drove new load requirements into the fuselage and created other statement of work changes for our suppliers.      During 2009, additional charges of $1,352 million were recorded to recognize reach-forward losses. During the first quarter of 2009, we recorded $347 million of a reach-forward loss due to a reduction in projected
delivery price increases associated with escalation and an increase in estimated costs due to our decisions to reduce twin-aisle production rates which impact production rates beginning in 2010. During the third quarter of 2009 we increased the
reach-forward loss on the 747 program by $1,005 million. Of this amount, $643 million was caused by higher estimated production costs, including both additional internal production costs and higher supplier expenses, attributable to greater than
expected re-work and disruption in manufacturing due to late maturity of engineering designs as well as the limited availability of engineering resources. The remaining $362 million was primarily due to challenging cargo market conditions and our
related decision to defer a planned increase in the 747-8 production rate, which drove higher allocations of fixed costs and caused us to incur volume-based penalties to suppliers.      First flight of the 747-8 Freighter is expected to occur during the first quarter of 2010, with the flight test program expected to take place in 2010. First delivery of the 747-8 Freighter is expected in the
fourth
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

quarter of 2010. First delivery of the Intercontinental passenger variant remains scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2011. The gap between the delivery of the last 747-400, which occurred in
2009, and first deliveries of the 747-8 will result in lower 747 program revenues.       767 Program  The accounting quantity for the 767 program
increased by 12 units during 2009. In April 2009, we announced a delay in previous plans to increase the production rate.       777 Program  The
accounting quantity for the 777 program increased by 50 units during 2009. Delivery of the first 777 Freighter occurred in February 2009. In April 2009, we announced that we will lower the production rate on our 777 airplane program, affecting
deliveries beginning in June 2010. This lower production rate will decrease revenues and earnings in 2010 and 2011.       787 Program  We announced on
June 23, 2009 the necessity to reinforce an area of structure at the side-of-body section of the airplane. During the fourth quarter, we completed the modifications on the first two flight-test airplanes and the full-scale static test airplane.
First flight of the 787 occurred on December 15, 2009. A second 787 completed its first test flight on December 22, 2009. Six aircraft in total will be involved in the flight test program, which is expected to result in certification of
the 787-8 in the fourth quarter of 2010. First delivery is also expected to occur in the fourth quarter of 2010. We continue to work toward our planned increases in 787 production rates as well as the timely introduction of the 787-9 derivative.
     During 2009, we concluded that the first three flight-test 787 aircraft could not be sold as previously anticipated due to the inordinate amount of
rework and unique and extensive modifications made to those aircraft. As a result, costs of $2,481 million previously recorded as program inventory as of July 31, 2009 were reclassified to research and development expense. Additional production
costs incurred between August and December 2009 of $212 million related to these flight-test airplanes were also included in research and development expense. We will continue to incur research and development costs on these flight test aircraft in
2010. We believe that the other three additional 787 flight test aircraft are commercially saleable and we continue to include costs related to those aircraft in program inventory at December 31, 2009. If we determine that one or more of the
other flight test aircraft cannot be sold we may incur additional charges.      On July 30, 2009, we acquired the business, assets and operations of
Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. s (Vought) 787 business conducted at North Charleston, South Carolina. The facility produces aft fuselage sections, including the fabrication, assembly and systems installation. See Note 2. On December 22,
2009, we acquired Alenia North America s 50% ownership interest in Global Aeronautica. As a result of the transaction, we are the sole owner of this entity. Located adjacent to Boeing Charleston, Global Aeronautica is an integrator of the 787
mid-fuselage sections.      On October 28, 2009 we announced the North Charleston facility as the location for a second final assembly site for the 787
Dreamliner program. A groundbreaking ceremony was held November 20, 2009 to mark the start of construction. Until the additional 787 assembly line is fully operational, we will establish transitional surge capability at our Everett, Washington,
location to facilitate the planned introduction of the 787-9, the first derivative model of the 787 family. When the additional line in North Charleston is fully operational, the surge capability in Everett will be phased out.      Looking beyond first flight, we continue to monitor and address other areas of challenge associated with assembly of initial airplanes including management of our
extended global supply chain, completion and integration of traveled work as well as weight and systems integration. Efforts continue to ensure we remain focused on satisfying customer mission and performance needs in light of the anticipated weight
of their respective aircraft.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

   We continue to work with our customers and suppliers to assess the specific impacts of schedule changes including
delivery delays and supplier assertions. A number of our customers have contractual remedies for schedule delays and/or performance. We continue to address customer claims and requests for other contractual relief as brought forth.      The cumulative impacts of the flight test delays, production challenges, schedule delays and customer and supplier impacts create significant pressure on program
revenue and cost estimates. We continue to assess our mitigation plans and cost reduction efforts to address these pressures.       Fleet Support  We
provide the operators of our commercial airplanes with assistance and services to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services begin prior to aircraft delivery and
continue throughout the operational life of the aircraft. They include flight and maintenance training, field service support costs, engineering services and technical data and documents. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred and have
been historically less than 1.5% of total consolidated costs of products and services. This level of expenditures is anticipated to continue in the upcoming years. These costs do not vary significantly with current production rates.       Research and Development  The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go-ahead and certification/initial delivery for major Commercial Airplanes
derivatives and programs.     

      Our Research and development expense increased by $2,545 million in 2009. This was due to reclassification to research and
development expense of $2,693 million of production costs related to the three 787 flight test aircraft and $50 million of lower supplier development cost sharing payments, partially offset by a $198 million decrease of other research and
development expense.      Our Research and development expense decreased $124 million in 2008. Research and development expense is net of development cost
sharing payments received from suppliers. The decrease in research and development spending for 2008 was primarily due to reduced 787 product development activities partially offset by $278 million of increased spending on the 747-8 program and $80
million of lower supplier development cost sharing payments.       Additional Considerations       The 787 and 747-8 programs highlight the risks that are always inherent in new airplane programs and new derivative airplanes, particularly as both the 747-8 and the
787 begin the demanding flight test and certification phases of program development. Costs related to development of new programs and derivative airplanes are expensed as incurred. Costs to produce new aircraft are included in inventory and
accounted for using program accounting. Airplane programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated production costs exceed our estimated program revenues for the accounting quantity. Generally commercial airplanes are sold on a firm
fixed-price basis with an indexed price escalation clause and are often sold several years before scheduled delivery. Each customer purchase
        
   27   

Table of Contents  

agreement contains an escalation clause to account for the effects of economic fluctuations over the period of time from airplane sale to airplane delivery. A price escalation formula based on
pre-defined factors is used to determine the final price of the airplane at the time of customer delivery. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. Many new airplanes
and derivatives have highly complex designs, utilize exotic materials and require extensive coordination and integration with supplier partners. As technical or quality issues arise, such as issues experienced on the 787 and 747-8 programs, we may
experience schedule delays and higher costs to complete new programs and derivative aircraft. Additionally, price escalation factors may also impact margins by reducing the estimated price of airplanes delivered in the future. There are other
factors that could also result in lower margins or a material charge if a program has or is determined to have reach-forward losses. These include: changes to the program accounting quantity, production costs and rates, capital expenditures and
other costs associated with increasing or adding new production capacity, learning curve, anticipated cost reductions, flight test and certification schedules, costs and schedule for derivative airplanes and status of customer claims, supplier
assertions and other contractual negotiations. While we believe the cost and revenue estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of these programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs
may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be extended, which could trigger termination provisions, order cancellations or other financially significant exposure.       Boeing Defense, Space   Security        Business Environment and Trends      On January 7, 2010, we announced that Integrated Defense Systems will begin operating under the name Boeing Defense, Space   Security (BDS).   
  BDS consists of three capabilities-driven businesses: Boeing Military Aircraft (BMA), Network   Space Systems (N SS) and Global Services  
Support (GS S). Additionally, BDS Phantom Works supports all three businesses via product development, rapid prototyping and customer engagement through experimentation and enterprise technology investment strategies.       Defense Environment Overview  The U.S. continues to balance funding priorities to plan for the broadest possible range of operations that include homeland
defense, natural disasters, stabilization efforts, counterinsurgency and counterterrorism operations, or nation state aggressors with growing sophistication and military means. The U.S. Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) faces the simultaneous
requirements to recapitalize important capabilities and transform the force to meet the changing national security as articulated in the 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review. All of this must be carried out against a backdrop of significant competing
national priorities including the economic crisis and healthcare reform. We anticipate that the national security environment will remain dynamic and challenging well into this decade trending with the threat environment.     Government policies are impacting the defense environment including defense acquisition reform, more insourcing, concerns over industrial base, a shift in emphasis
towards more affordable solutions and emphasis on increasing diplomatic efforts to expand and strengthen our alliances.      Although the U.S. DoD budget
has grown substantially over the past decade, we expect the total budget growth rate to level off over the next several years due to shifting priorities and budget pressures. The fiscal year 2010 discretionary budget request of $660 billion includes
an Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) budget of $130 billion, with an additional $33 billion requested.      The fiscal year 2011 discretionary budget of
$708 billion includes OCO budget of $159 billion. Procurement is expected to increase, while Research and Development accounts decrease, facing increasing budgetary pressures due to growing requirements from Operations and Maintenance (O M) and
personnel costs tied to U.S. commitments overseas. However, this trend is partially offset by
        
   28   

Table of Contents  

equipment recapitalization efforts and continued demand for systems development. The near-term forecast of the defense budget environment shows limited growth in the 2011 to 2015 period for
investment efforts. Though opportunities may exist following U.S. troop draw-downs in Iraq, they are offset by recent increases in Afghanistan. We continue to see pressure to reduce OCO requests that have been used to cover the ongoing costs of the
wars.      It is unlikely that the U.S. DoD will be able to fully fund all programs of record already in development as well as new initiatives. This
imbalance between future costs of programs and expected funding levels is not uncommon in the U.S. DoD and is routinely managed by internally adjusting priorities and schedules, restructuring programs, and lengthening production runs to meet the
constraints of available funding and occasionally by cancellation of programs. We expect the U.S. DoD will respond to future budget constraints by focusing on affordability strategies from acquisition reform and emphasizing utilization of commercial
off-the-shelf solutions and network-enabled operations. These strategies will be enabled through persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), long-range strike, special operations, unmanned systems, cyber security, and
precision-guided kinetic and non-kinetic weapons, electronic warfare, as well as selected outsourcing of logistics and support activities to improve overall effectiveness while maintaining control over costs.     Other nations continue to experience growing demands for new equipment to address operational requirements, aging inventories, and changing threat environments.
Greater U.S. reliance on allies and coalition partners places additional pressure on nations to emphasize acquisition of material that is deployable, survivable, and interoperable with the international community. European nations are struggling to
meet defense investment needs as budget deficits create greater pressure on resources. Though regional financial concerns exist, Middle Eastern military markets remain robust with stable oil prices and persistent regional security concerns
sustaining continued defense investment. In Asia, growth is slowing with nations pursuing select acquisitions to address growing regional threats. The international market will continue to be affected by global economic challenges. However, the
continuing threat environment should keep demand stable in 2010.       Missile Defense Environment  The proliferation of short- and medium-range
ballistic missiles is considered the greatest current threat to security and is driving missile defense spending. As a result, the near-term focus for growth is in regional and tactical BMD systems.       Civil Space Transportation and Exploration Environment  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) budget is focused on technology development and
demonstration programs, the International Space Station, and new initiatives associated with space exploration. NASA is developing new approaches to space exploration with added emphasis on commercial spaceflight systems, space technology
development and robotic missions. NASA is also enhancing its focus on climate change and aeronautics research.       Homeland Security Environment  The
continuing threat from terrorism is the key driver for the homeland security market. Key growth areas include aviation security, border security, maritime security and cyber security. Additionally, the U.S. government is focused on increasing
cooperation with state and local institutions.       Commercial Satellite Environment  The commercial satellite market is experiencing improvement in
market demand, partly driven by strong U.S. government demand for commercial satellite systems and services, but the overall sector continues to be characterized by overcapacity creating strong competitive pressures on pricing.       Adjacent Market Environment  We see growth opportunities across a number of adjacent markets with both U.S. DoD and other U.S. government customers. These
markets, including services, unmanned systems, intelligence, cyber, and energy, represent key development areas which support the current engagements overseas as well as emerging national security issues.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

    Services  Growth in services is anticipated both domestically and internationally, as customers have a wide
variety of needs, including information services, platform-related services, facility management, infrastructure services and logistics command and control.       Unmanned Systems  The unmanned market continues to see growth in all classes of platforms due to the high demand from the U.S. military in Southwest Asia. We anticipate this growth increasing as unmanned systems continue to provide
critical mission functions to the war fighter with affordability, persistence, and accuracy.       Intelligence  We see the intelligence market growing
based on the demands of data collection, dissemination, and analysis driven by the conflicts in Southwest Asia. Growth in data fusion, data management, and information sharing is expected as the use of ISR assets increase.       Cyber  The demand for defensive, offensive, and exploit operations in the emerging cyber market provides unique growth opportunities as explicit needs are
further defined by customers. Cyber threats from both state and non-state actors represent a critical national security issue. The U.S. government is taking significant steps to mitigate the cyber threat to the U.S. DoD and to U.S. critical
infrastructure.       Energy  We anticipate the energy market will emerge with growth potential. As energy volatility becomes more substantial, the
need for energy management, infrastructure security, and scenario modeling will increase accordingly. The U.S. DoD, including individual service branches, is also actively engaged in developing energy policy guidance and comprehensive plans from
which to execute programs.       BDS Realignment       Effective January 1, 2009, 2008 and 2007 certain programs were realigned among BDS segments. In addition, effective January 1, 2008, certain environmental remediation contracts (formerly included in N SS) were transferred
to the Other Segment. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment. See Note 21.       Operating Results
       (Dollars in millions)        
    Since our operating cycle is long-term and involves many different types of development and production
contracts with varying delivery and milestone schedules, the operating results of a particular year, or year-to-year comparisons of revenues and earnings, may not be indicative of future operating results. In addition, depending on the customer and
their funding sources, our orders might be structured as annual follow-on contracts, or as one large multi-year order or long-term award. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of future workloads. The
following discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context.        
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Revenues  BDS revenues increased by $1,614 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to higher revenues in
GS S and BMA, partially offset by decreases in N SS. BDS revenues were unchanged in 2008 compared to 2007 as revenue growth in GS S was offset by decreases in BMA and N SS.       Operating Earnings  BDS operating earnings in 2009 increased by $67 million compared with 2008 primarily due to higher earnings in the BMA segment, partially
offset by lower earnings in the N SS segment. BDS earnings decreased by $208 million in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to lower earnings in the BMA segment resulting from a $248 million charge taken on the AEW C program in the second
quarter partially offset by higher earnings in the N SS segment.       Backlog  Total backlog is comprised of contractual backlog, which represents
work we are on contract to perform for which we have received funding, and unobligated backlog, which represents work we are on contract to perform for which funding has not yet been authorized and appropriated. BDS total backlog decreased 11% in
2009, from $73,004 million to $64,839 million, partly due to a partial termination for convenience from the U.S. Army of the BCTM (formerly FCS) System Development and Demonstration contract relating to Manned Ground Vehicles and associated systems
and equipment. Current year deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior years also contributed to the backlog reduction.      For further
details on the changes between periods, refer to the discussions of the individual segments below.      Additional Considerations       Our business includes a variety of development programs which have complex design and technical challenges. Many of these programs have cost-type contracting
arrangements. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if milestones and technical progress are not accomplished. Examples of these programs include Airborne Laser, EA-18G, Family of
Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals (FAB-T), BCTM (formerly FCS), GMD, Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS), P-8A and Proprietary programs.      Some of our
development programs are contracted on a fixed-price basis. Many of these programs have highly complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to
perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of which could result in a material charge. These programs are ongoing, and while we believe the cost and fee estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical
complexity of these programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be extended, which could trigger termination provisions, the loss of satellite in-orbit incentive payments, or
other financially significant exposure. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated costs exceed our estimated contract revenues. Examples of these programs include AEW C, International KC-767 Tanker, commercial and
military satellites, Vigilare and High Frequency Modernisation.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    Boeing Military Aircraft        Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues  BMA revenues increased 6% in 2009 and decreased 1% in 2008. The increase of $746 million in
2009 was primarily due to higher deliveries and volume on the Apache, V-22 and Chinook rotorcraft programs and the F-18 and Proprietary programs, partly offset by lower volume on the F-22 and several weapons programs. The decrease of $188 million in
2008 is primarily driven by lower F-22, Apache, F-18 and Chinook revenue partially offset by increased deliveries on F-15 and International KC-767 Tanker and C-17 contract mix.      Deliveries of new-build production aircraft, excluding remanufactures and modifications, were as follows:       
     Operating Earnings  BMA operating earnings increased by $236 million in 2009 partly due to higher
deliveries on several programs and volume, partially offset by a change in delivery mix. Operating earnings in both years were negatively impacted by charges on the AEW C and International KC-767 Tanker programs. BMA earnings decreased by $330
million in 2008 primarily due to charges taken on the AEW C program. Delivery mix and lower volume also contributed to the decrease in 2008.          Research and Development  The BMA segment continues to focus research and development resources to leverage customer knowledge, technical expertise and system integration of manned and unmanned systems that provide innovative
solutions to meet the warfighter s enduring needs. Research and development expense in 2009 increased by 13% over 2008 primarily due to proprietary programs which was partially offset by lower international tanker development costs. Research
and development activities utilize our capabilities in architectures, system-of-systems integration and weapon systems technologies to develop solutions which are designed to enhance our customers  capabilities in the areas of mobility,
precision effects, situational awareness and survivability. Investments in prototyping allow us to offer low-risk programs to our customers. The products of our research and development support both new manned and unmanned systems as well as
enhanced versions of existing fielded products. Investments support vertical integration of our product line in
        
   32   

Table of Contents  

areas like autonomous operation of unmanned vehicles, advanced sensors and Electronic Warfare. These efforts focus on increasing mission effectiveness, interoperability, reliability and reducing
the cost of ownership.       Backlog  BMA total backlog in 2009 was virtually unchanged from 2008. Backlog increases due to 2009 current year orders
for C-17, P-8 India and Chinook aircraft were offset by revenues recognized on multi-year contracts received in prior years with the largest decrease in the F/A-18 program. Total backlog increased by 13% in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to
an increase in the V-22, Chinook and F-15 program backlog. These increases were partially offset by deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior years with the largest decreases in the C-17 and F/A-18 programs.       Additional Considerations      Items which could have a future
impact on BMA operations include the following:       AEW C  During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded charges increasing the reach-forward losses on
the AEW C programs in Australia and Turkey by $133 million, $308 million and $81 million, respectively. The 2009 charge primarily related to delivery schedule delays. The 2008 charge, primarily related to our program in Australia, was due to
subsystem development issues on the electronic warfare and ground support systems and the additional time required for integration testing. The AEW C development program, also known as Wedgetail in Australia, Peace Eagle in Turkey and Peace Eye
in the Republic of Korea, consists of 737-700 aircraft outfitted with a variety of command and control and advanced radar systems, some of which have never been installed on an airplane before. Wedgetail includes six aircraft and Peace Eagle and
Peace Eye include four aircraft each. During the fourth quarter of 2009, two Wedgetail aircraft were provided to Australia for familiarization and training. Wedgetail final delivery and customer acceptance is scheduled to begin in late 2010 and
extend through the second quarter of 2011. These are advanced and complex fixed-price development programs involving technical challenges at the individual subsystem level and in the overall integration of these subsystems into a reliable and
effective operational capability. We believe that the cost and revenue estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate; however, the technical complexity of the programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may be
necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be delayed.       International KC-767 Tanker Program  During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded charges
increasing the reach-forward losses in the International KC-767 Tanker programs by $78 million, $85 million and $152 million, respectively. The 2007 charge was partially offset at the consolidated level. The International KC-767 Tanker program
includes four aircraft for the Italian Air Force and four aircraft for the Japanese Air Self Defense Force. The final delivery to Japan was made in December 2009. The Italian International KC-767 program is ongoing, and while we believe the revenue
and cost estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of the program creates financial risk as additional completion and development costs may be necessary or remaining scheduled delivery dates could
be delayed.       C-17  See the discussion of C-17 in Note 11 Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    Network   Space Systems        Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues  N SS revenues decreased 4% in 2009 and 1% in 2008. N SS revenues are expected to
decrease in 2010, primarily due to lower revenues on the BCTM and GMD programs. The decrease of $469 million in 2009 is primarily due to lower volume on the GMD, Intelligence and Security Systems, and Proprietary programs, partly offset by higher
volume on several satellite programs. The decrease of $135 million in 2008 is primarily due to decreased revenues in BCTM (formerly FCS), Proprietary and satellite programs partially offset by increased revenues in the SBInet program.      Delta launch and new-build satellite deliveries were as follows:       
     Operating Earnings  N SS operating earnings decreased by $195 million in 2009 primarily due to lower
revenues and charges related to the Sea Launch bankruptcy. Earnings in 2009 were also reduced by charges related to the settlement of a satellite contract dispute and indemnification of Delta II inventory. Earnings in 2008 included a favorable
settlement on a civil satellite program. N SS earnings increased by $171 million in 2008 primarily due to increased earnings from our investment in United Launch Alliance (ULA). N SS operating earnings include equity earnings of $164
million, $178 million and $74 million from the United Space Alliance joint venture and the ULA joint venture in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.       Research and Development  The N SS research and development funding remains focused on the development of communications, command and control, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems (C4ISR); that support
a network-enabled architecture approach for our customers. We are investing in capabilities to enhance connectivity between existing and new air/ground and maritime platforms, to increase communications availability, utility and bandwidth through
more robust space systems, and to leverage innovative networking and ISR concepts. Key programs in this area include BCTM, JTRS, Wideband Global Satellite System Ares, FAB-T and SBInet. Investments were also made
to develop concepts and capabilities related to cyber and security products, as well as the development of next-generation space and intelligence systems. Along with increased funding to support these network-enabled
capabilities, we also maintained our investment levels in missile defense, directed energy and advanced exploration systems.       Backlog  N SS
total backlog decreased by 34% in 2009 compared with 2008 partly due to the partial termination for convenience from the U.S. Army of the BCTM (formerly FCS) System Development and Demonstration contract related to Manned Ground Vehicles and
associated systems and equipment. Current year deliveries and sales on multi-year contracts awarded in prior years including BCTM,
        
   34   

Table of Contents  

GMD, and Proprietary programs also contributed to the backlog reduction. Total backlog decreased by 12% in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to revenues recognized on multi-year orders
received in prior years on BCTM, GMD and C3 programs, partially offset by an increase in the International Space Station program.       Additional
Considerations       Items which could have a future impact on N SS operations include the following:       United Launch Alliance  On December 1, 2006, we and Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed) created a 50/50 joint venture named United Launch Alliance
L.L.C. ULA combines the production, engineering, test and launch operations associated with U.S. government launches of Boeing Delta and Lockheed Atlas rockets. We initially contributed net assets of $914 million at December 1, 2006. The book
value of our investment exceeded our proportionate share of ULA s net assets. This difference is expensed ratably in future years. Based on the adjusted contributions and the conformed accounting policies established by ULA, this amortization
is expected to be approximately $15 million annually for the next 15 years.      In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed each have agreed
to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 million to support its working capital requirements during the 5 year period following December 1, 2006. We and Lockheed transferred performance responsibility for certain U.S. government
contracts to ULA as of the closing date. We and Lockheed agreed to jointly guarantee the performance of those contracts to the extent required by the U.S. government. We and Lockheed have also each committed to provide ULA with up to $122 million of
additional capital contributions in the event ULA does not have sufficient funds to make a required payment to us under an inventory supply agreement. See Note 7.      We agreed to indemnify ULA through December 31, 2020 against potential non-recoverability and non-allowability of $1,360 million of Boeing Delta inventories included in contributed assets plus $1,860 million
of inventory subject to an inventory supply agreement which ends on March 31, 2021. Since inception, ULA has consumed $1,111 million of inventories that were contributed by us and has made payments of $120 million to us under the inventory
supply agreement. As part of its integration, ULA is continuing to assess the future of the Delta II program beyond what is currently on contract. In the event ULA is unable to sell additional Delta II inventory, earnings could be reduced by up to
$62 million.      We agreed to indemnify ULA against potential losses that ULA may incur in the event ULA is unable to obtain certain additional contract
pricing from the U.S. Air Force (USAF) for four satellite missions. We believe ULA is entitled to additional contract pricing. In December 2008, ULA submitted a claim to the USAF to re-price the contract value for two of the four satellite missions
covered by the indemnification. In March 2009, the USAF issued a denial of that claim and in June 2009, ULA filed an appeal. During 2009, the USAF exercised its option for a third satellite mission. ULA intends to submit a claim to the USAF in 2010
to re-price the contract value of the third mission. If ULA is unsuccessful obtaining additional pricing we may be responsible for some of the shortfall and may record up to $382 million in pre-tax losses associated with the four missions.
      Business Environment and Trends  During 2009, we received a partial termination for convenience from the U.S. Army of the BCTM (formerly
FCS) System Development and Demonstration contract relating to Manned Ground Vehicles and associated systems and equipment. We believe the final restructured BCTM contract will negatively impact revenue and earnings in the N SS segment
going forward. In addition, we completed the TSAT risk reduction and system definition contract in July 2009 and do not anticipate a future TSAT space segment program competition. As a result of lower than anticipated revenue and earnings, we
tested N SS goodwill for impairment during 2009. No
        
   35   

Table of Contents  

impairment was indicated by our tests. Future recommended budgetary changes, if approved by Congress, or additional partial terminations, could further impact N SS programs, including the
recoverability of goodwill.       Sea Launch  See the discussion of Sea Launch Chapter 11 Filing and outstanding accounts receivable in Note 6 Accounts
Receivable.       Satellites  See the discussions of Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc. (BSSI) in Note 20 Legal Proceedings and discussion of
Satellite insurance risk in Note 11 Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies.       Global Services   Support        Operating Results        (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues  GS S revenues increased $1,337 million in 2009 and $318 million in 2008, an increase of 18%
and 4%. The 2009 increase was due to increased volume in the Integrated Logistics (IL), and the Training Systems and Services (TS S) divisions. The 2008 increase was due to higher revenues in the TS S and IL divisions partially offset by
decreases in International Support program volume.       Operating Earnings  GS S Operating earnings increased 3% in 2009 as additional earnings
from increased volume were partially offset by lower margins due to contract adjustments and changes in contract mix. Operating earnings decreased by 5% in 2008 due to changes in the contract mix and disposition of contract matters.       Research and Development  GS S continues to focus investment strategies on its core businesses including IL, Maintenance Modifications and Upgrades
(MM U) and TS S, as well as on moving into new market areas of Logistics Command and Control (Log C2) and Energy Management in Advanced Global Services and Support. Investments have been made to continue the development and
implementation of innovative tools, processes and systems as market discriminators in the delivery of integrated customer solutions. Examples of successful programs stemming from these investment strategies include the C-17 Globemaster Sustainment
Partnership, the F/A-18 Integrated Readiness Support Teaming program, the F-15 Singapore Performance-Based Logistics contract, and Smart Grid Projects. Successful development of adaptable systems has allowed GS S to transition from Boeing
platforms and into the broader aviation market. Beyond aerospace, GS S capabilities have created opportunities in adjacencies and new markets exemplified in 2009 through entrance into the Land Vehicle support, Energy
Solutions, and Logistics Information Systems markets.       Backlog  GS S total backlog increased by 8% in 2009 compared with 2008 due to
significant growth in International Support and Defense and Government Services programs and partially offset by decreases in the IL and MM U divisions. Total backlog increased 6% in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to increases in IL and
International Support programs.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

    Boeing Capital Corporation        Business Environment and Trends       BCC s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31,
2009 totaled $5,666 million, which was substantially collateralized by Boeing produced commercial aircraft. A substantial portion of BCC s portfolio is concentrated among U.S. commercial airline customers.      The weak global economic environment and capital market disruptions affected the availability of credit for the airline industry. While sources of financing available
for aircraft deliveries improved during 2009, BCC provided limited financing to certain Boeing customers. To the extent capital market conditions continue to improve, we believe the overall aircraft financing market should improve as well and lessen
the need for BCC to provide financing.      Aircraft values and lease rates are impacted by the number and type of aircraft that are currently out of
service. Approximately 2,400 western-built commercial jet aircraft (11.6% of current world fleet) were parked as of December 2009, including both in-production and out-of-production aircraft types. Over 36% of the parked aircraft are not expected to
return to service. In December 2008 and 2007, 11.0% and 8.2% of the western-built commercial jet aircraft were parked. Aircraft valuations could decline if significant numbers of aircraft, particularly types with relatively few operators, are placed
out of service.       Summary Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)        
     Revenues       BCC segment revenues consist principally of lease income from equipment under operating lease and interest from financing receivables and notes. BCC s revenues decreased $43 million in 2009, resulting from lower operating lease income
resulting from a smaller portfolio of equipment under operating leases as a result of aircraft returns and asset dispositions. BCC s revenues decreased $112 million in 2008, primarily due to lower interest income on notes receivable and lower
investment income.       Earnings From Operations       BCC s operating earnings are presented net of interest expense, provision for (recovery of) losses, asset impairment expense, depreciation on leased equipment and other operating expenses. Operating earnings decreased by $36 million in
2009 primarily due to lower revenues, higher impairment expense and a provision for losses primarily due to declines in aircraft collateral values and reduced projected cash flows for certain aircraft. The decrease in operating earnings in 2008
compared with 2007 was primarily due to lower revenues.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

    Financial Position       The following table presents selected financial data for BCC as of December 31,:       
    BCC s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2009 decreased from
December 31, 2008 due to normal portfolio run-off partially offset by new business volume. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, BCC had $385 million and $685 million of assets that were held for sale or re-lease, of which $345 million and $305
million had either executed term sheets with deposits or firm contracts to be sold or placed on lease. In March 2009, Mexicana Group committed to lease 25 717 aircraft, including 13 that were placed on lease and 12 that were held for sale or
re-lease at December 31, 2009. Additionally, aircraft subject to leases with a carrying value of approximately $171 million are scheduled to be returned off lease during 2010. These aircraft are being remarketed or the leases are being extended
and approximately $15 million of such aircraft had either executed term sheets with deposits or firm contracts at December 31, 2009.      BCC enters
into certain transactions with the Other segment in the form of intercompany guarantees and other subsidies.       Restructurings and Restructuring
Requests       From time to time, certain customers have requested a restructuring of their transactions with BCC. As of December 31, 2009, BCC has
not reached agreement on any restructuring requests that would have a material adverse effect on its earnings, cash flows and/or financial position.       Other Segment        (Dollars in millions)        
    Effective January 1, 2008, certain intercompany items were realigned between the Other segment and
Unallocated expense. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment. Other segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by $402 million compared with 2008 primarily due to the
sale of three C-17 aircraft in 2008 held under operating lease. Other segment operating losses for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by $155 million primarily due to recognition of pre-tax expense of $82 million in the prior year to
increase the allowance for losses on customer financing receivables related to lower U.S. airline customer credit ratings. During 2009, Other segment recognized $76 million in lower charges relating to environmental remediation than in 2008.
     Other segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $259 million compared with 2007 primarily due to the sale of four C-17
aircraft held under operating lease, three of which were sold in 2008. Other segment operating losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased by $24 million compared with 2007 primarily due to $50 million in lower environmental and
certain other charges offset by the recognition of a provision for losses of $82 million related to lower U.S. airline customer credit ratings. The provision for losses amount has been recorded in the Other segment as a result of intercompany
guarantees we provide to BCC.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources        Cash Flow Summary        
     Operating Activities  Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6,004 million to $5,603
million during 2009 compared with 2008. The improvement reflects a reduction in working capital due to the inventory that was built up during the 2008 IAM strike which was delivered in 2009, offset by the continued ramp up of the 787 program during
2009. We expect operating cash flows to be lower in 2010 as we continue to build inventories prior to deliveries of the 787 and 747-8 airplanes. We contributed 29,211,295 shares of our common stock with an aggregate value of $1.5 billion to our
pension plans in November 2009. Cash contributions to our pension plans totaled $82 million and $531 million in 2009 and 2008.       Investing Activities
 Cash used by investing activities totaled $3,794 million during 2009 compared with $1,888 million provided during 2008. The $5,682 million year-over-year change is primarily due to changes in investments in time deposits and debt securities. In
2008 we received net proceeds of $4,670 million from liquidating investments. In 2009, we made net contributions of $1,588 million to investments. In 2009, other investing outlays included $639 million for acquisitions and $448 million to satisfy
guarantees of Sea Launch indebtedness, which was partially offset by a $40 million reimbursement. These cash outlays were partly offset by $488 million of lower capital spending on property, plant and equipment additions in 2009 compared with 2008.
We expect capital spending in 2010 to be higher than 2009 due to the construction of a second 787 final assembly line in North Charleston, South Carolina.       Financing Activities  Cash provided by financing activities totaled $4,094 million during 2009 compared with $5,202 million used during 2008, primarily due to proceeds from borrowings of $5,961 million in 2009 and reductions in share
repurchases in 2009.      On March 13, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,850 million, on July 28, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,950 million,
and on November 20, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,200 million. On October 27, 2009, BCC issued notes totaling $1,000 million.      In 2009, we
repaid $551 million of debt, including $528 million of debt held at BCC. In 2008, we repaid $738 million of debt, including $709 million of debt held at BCC. In 2007, we repaid $1,406 million of debt, including $1,309 million of debt held at BCC.
There were no material debt issuances during 2008 or 2007. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the recorded balance of debt was $12,924 million and $7,512 million, of which $707 million and $560 million were classified as short-term. This includes
$4,075 million and $3,652 million of debt recorded at BCC, of which $659 million and $528 million was classified as short-term.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

   During 2009, we repurchased 1,173,152 shares at an average price of $42.94 in our open market share repurchase program
and 477,176 shares transferred to us from employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock during the period. During 2008, we repurchased 42,073,885 shares at an average price of $69.79
in our open market share repurchase program, 1,462,776 shares at an average price of $64.95 as part of the ShareValue Trust distribution, and 74,824 shares in stock swaps. During 2007, we repurchased 28,995,599 shares at an average price of $95.68
in our open market share repurchase program and 28,432 shares in stock swaps. Share repurchase activity is expected to remain at a minimal level in 2010.       Credit Ratings  Our credit ratings are summarized below:       

Fitch  
      
  Moody s  
      
  Standard   Poor s   
 
    Long-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  A+  
      
  A2  
      
  A   
 
    Outlook   
      
  Negative  
      
  Negative  
      
  Stable   
 
    Short-term:   

Boeing/BCC   
      
  F1  
      
  P-1  
      
  A-1   
 
        On April 30, 2009, Fitch Ratings affirmed Boeing s and
BCC s A+ credit rating but changed its outlook from stable to negative. On July 29, 2009, Standard   Poor s lowered Boeing s and BCC s long-term ratings from A+ to A. On October 14, 2009, Moody s affirmed
Boeing s and BCC s A2 and P-1 ratings, but changed its outlook from neutral to negative.       Capital Resources  We have substantial
borrowing capacity. Any future borrowings may affect our credit ratings and are subject to various debt covenants. We and BCC have commercial paper programs that continue to serve as significant potential sources of short-term liquidity. Throughout
2009 and at December 31, 2009, neither we nor BCC had any commercial paper borrowings outstanding. Currently, we have $3,525 million ($1,500 million exclusively available for BCC) of unused borrowing on revolving credit line agreements, of
which $2,000 million is a 5-year credit facility expiring in November 2012 and $1,525 million is a 364-day revolving credit facility expiring in November 2010. Both the 5-year and 364-day credit facilities have a one-year term out option which
allows us to extend the maturity of any borrowings one year beyond the aforementioned expiration dates. In 2009, we renewed the 364-day revolving credit facility, of which $500 million is allocated to BCC. We anticipate that these credit lines will
primarily serve as backup liquidity to support possible commercial paper borrowings in 2010. On March 9, 2009, we filed a public shelf registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of
debt securities and common stock.      In the event we require additional funding to support strategic business opportunities, our commercial aircraft
financing commitments, unfavorable resolution of loss contingencies, or other business requirements, we expect to meet increased funding requirements by issuing commercial paper or term debt. We believe our ability to access external capital
resources should be sufficient to satisfy existing short-term and long-term commitments and plans, and also to provide adequate financial flexibility to take advantage of potential strategic business opportunities should they arise within the next
year. At this point in time, our access to liquidity sources has not been materially impacted by the current credit environment, and we do not expect that it will be materially impacted in the near future. There can be no assurance, however, that
the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program, in the debt markets or our credit facilities will not be materially impacted by capital market conditions.      On November 9, 2009, we made pension contributions in the form of 29,211,295 shares of our common stock. The contributed shares had an aggregate value of $1.5
billion, as of the contribution
        
   40   

Table of Contents  

date. The share contribution did not affect cash balances. In addition, we made cash contributions of $82 million during 2009. In 2010, we will begin matching employee contributions to the
company-sponsored 401(k) plan with common stock instead of cash for nonunion employees.      At December 31, 2009 and 2008 our pension plans were
$6,356 million and $8,420 million underfunded as measured under GAAP. In 2010, required contributions to our pension plans are not expected to exceed $100 million.      As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the covenants for our debt and credit facilities. The most restrictive covenants include a limitation on mortgage debt and sale and leaseback transactions as
a percentage of consolidated net tangible assets (as defined in the credit agreements), and a limitation on consolidated debt as a percentage of total capital (as defined). When considering debt covenants, we continue to have substantial borrowing
capacity.       Contractual Obligations       The following
table summarizes our known obligations to make future payments pursuant to certain contracts as of December 31, 2009, and the estimated timing thereof.       

*  
  Includes interest on variable rate debt calculated based on interest rates at December 31, 2009. Variable rate debt was approximately 1% of our total debt at
December 31, 2009.         Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits  Pension cash requirements are based on an estimate of our
minimum funding requirements, pursuant to ERISA regulations, although we may make additional discretionary contributions. Estimates of other postretirement benefits are based on both our estimated future benefit payments and the estimated
contributions to plans that are funded through trusts.       Purchase Obligations  Purchase obligations represent contractual agreements to purchase
goods or services that are legally binding; specify a fixed, minimum or range of quantities; specify a fixed, minimum, variable, or indexed price provision; and specify approximate timing of the transaction. In addition, the agreements are not
cancelable without substantial penalty. Purchase obligations include amounts recorded as well as amounts that are not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Approximately 9% of the purchase obligations disclosed above are
reimbursable to us pursuant to cost-type government contracts.       Purchase Obligations Not Recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position  Production related purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include agreements for production goods, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts,
        
   41   

Table of Contents  

property, plant and equipment, and other miscellaneous production related obligations. The most significant obligation relates to inventory procurement contracts. We have entered into certain
significant inventory procurement contracts that specify determinable prices and quantities, and long-term delivery timeframes. In addition, we purchase raw materials on behalf of our suppliers. These agreements require suppliers and vendors to be
prepared to build and deliver items in sufficient time to meet our production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises from the extended production planning horizon for many of our products. A significant portion
of these inventory commitments is supported by firm contracts and/or has historically resulted in settlement through reimbursement from customers for penalty payments to the supplier should the customer not take delivery. These amounts are also
included in our forecasts of costs for program and contract accounting. Some inventory procurement contracts may include escalation adjustments. In these limited cases, we have included our best estimate of the effect of the escalation adjustment in
the amounts disclosed in the table above.       Purchase Obligations Recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  Purchase obligations
recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position primarily include accounts payable and certain other liabilities including accrued compensation and dividends payable.       Industrial Participation Agreements  We have entered into various industrial participation agreements with certain customers outside of the U.S. to facilitate economic flow back and/or technology transfer to
their businesses or government agencies as the result of their procurement of goods and/or services from us. These commitments may be satisfied by our placement of direct work or vendor orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts,
transfer of technology or other forms of assistance. However, in certain cases, our commitments may be satisfied through other parties (such as our vendors) who purchase supplies from our non-U.S. customers. We do not commit to industrial
participation agreements unless a contract for sale of our products or services is signed. In certain cases, penalties could be imposed if we do not meet our industrial participation commitments. During 2009, we incurred no such penalties. As of
December 31, 2009, we have outstanding industrial participation agreements totaling $11 billion that extend through 2024. Purchase order commitments associated with industrial participation agreements are included in the table above. To be
eligible for such a purchase order commitment from us, a foreign supplier must have sufficient capability to meet our requirements and must be competitive in cost, quality and schedule.       Income Tax Obligations  As of December 31, 2009, our total liability for income taxes payable, including uncertain tax positions, was $1,009 million, of which $182 million we expect to pay in the next
twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the remaining $827 million. Our income tax obligations are excluded from the table above. See Note 5.       Commercial Commitments       The following table summarizes our
commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2009.       
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

   Commercial aircraft financing commitments include commitments to provide financing related to aircraft on order, under
option for deliveries or proposed as part of sales campaigns based on estimated earliest potential funding dates. Based on historical experience, we currently do not anticipate that all of these commitments will be exercised by our customers;
however there can be no assurances that we will not be required to fund greater amounts than historically required. See Note 11.       Contingent
Obligations       We have significant contingent obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business, which include the following:       Legal  Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations are pending against us. Legal contingencies are discussed in Note 20, including our contesting the
default termination of the A-12 aircraft, litigation/arbitration involving BSSI programs and employment and benefits litigation brought by several of our employees.         Environmental Remediation  We are involved with various environmental remediation activities and have recorded a liability of $706 million at December 31, 2009. For additional information, see Note
11.         Income Taxes  We have recorded a net liability of $1,787 million at December 31, 2009 for uncertain tax positions. For further
discussion of these contingencies, see Note 5.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including certain guarantees. For discussion of these arrangements, see Note 12.       Critical Accounting Policies        Contract Accounting       Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and costs for each contract, which results in the development of estimated cost of
sales percentages. For each contract, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue recognized.      Due to the size, length of time and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs through completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Total contract sales estimates are based
on negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance, and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based
clauses). The majority of these contracts are with the U.S. government. Generally the price is based on estimated cost to produce the product or service plus profit. Federal acquisition regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be
reimbursed in establishing contract price. Total contract cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. Factors that influence these
estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements.      The development of cost of sales percentages involves procedures and personnel in all areas that provide financial or production information on the status of
contracts. Estimates of each significant contract s sales and costs are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Any changes in these estimates result in recognition of cumulative adjustments to the contract profit in the period in which changes are
made.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

   Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different
cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect
financial performance in future periods. If the combined gross margin for all contracts in BDS for all of 2009 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1%, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the year by approximately $337
million. A number of our contracts are in a reach forward loss position. Changes to estimated loss in future periods are recorded immediately in earnings.       Program Accounting       Program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably estimate the relationship of sales to costs for the
defined program accounting quantity. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The
determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of existing and anticipated contracts. For each program, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by
applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the customer.      Factors that must be estimated include program accounting quantity, sales price, labor and employee benefit costs, material costs, procured part costs, major component costs, overhead costs, program tooling costs,
and routine warranty costs. Estimation of the accounting quantity for each program takes into account several factors that are indicative of the demand for the particular program, such as firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers,
and market studies. Total estimated program sales are determined by estimating the model mix and sales price for all unsold units within the accounting quantity, added together with the sales prices for all undelivered units under contract. The
sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation adjustment that is based on projected escalation rates, consistent with typical sales contract terms. Cost estimates are based largely on negotiated and
anticipated contracts with suppliers, historical performance trends, and business base and other economic projections. Factors that influence these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, customer and/or
supplier claims or assertions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, and inflationary trends.      To ensure reliability in our estimates, we
employ a rigorous estimating process that is reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimates are normally recognized on a prospective basis; when estimated costs to complete a program exceed estimated revenues from undelivered units
in the accounting quantity, a loss provision is recorded in the current period for the estimated loss on all undelivered units in the accounting quantity.      The program method of accounting allocates tooling and production costs over the accounting quantity for each program. Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new program and substantial investment
required for initial tooling, new commercial aircraft programs, such as the 787 program, typically have lower margins than established programs.      Due to
the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different cost of sales amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions, or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in
underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future periods. If combined cost of sales percentages for commercial airplane programs, excluding the 747 program,
for all of 2009 had been estimated to be higher or lower by 1%, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the year by approximately $275 million. The 747 program is in a reach-forward loss position. Absent changes in the estimated
revenues or costs, subsequent deliveries are
        
   44   

Table of Contents  

recorded at zero margin. Reductions to the estimated loss in subsequent periods are spread over all undelivered units in the accounting quantity, whereas increases to the estimated loss are
recorded immediately.       Aircraft Valuation        Allowance for Losses on Customer Financing Receivables  The allowance for losses on customer financing receivables (valuation provision) is used to provide for potential impairment of customer financing receivables in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. The balance represents an estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the customer financing receivables portfolio. The estimate is based on various qualitative and quantitative factors, including historical loss
experience, collateral values, and results of individual credit and collectibility reviews. The adequacy of the allowance is assessed quarterly.      Three
primary factors influencing the level of our allowance are customer credit ratings, collateral values and default rates. If each customer s credit rating were upgraded or downgraded by one major rating category at December 31, 2009, the
allowance would have decreased by $142 million or increased by $308 million. If the collateral values were 10% higher or lower at December 31, 2009, the allowance would have decreased by $56 million or increased by $54 million. If the
cumulative default rates used for each rating category should increase or decrease 1%, the allowance would have increased by $6 million or decreased by $6 million.       Impairment Review for Assets Under Operating Leases and Held for Re-Lease  We evaluate for impairment assets under operating lease or assets held for re-lease when events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the expected undiscounted cash flow from the asset may be less than its carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow including the expected future lease rates, lease terms, residual value of
the asset, periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset.      When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment expense recorded is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.      Had future lease rates on assets evaluated for impairment been 10% lower, we estimate that we would have incurred additional impairment expense of $8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2009.       Lease Residual Values  Equipment under operating leases and assets held for re-lease are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and are depreciated to estimated residual value using the straight-line method over the period that we project we will hold the asset for lease. Estimates used in determining residual values significantly impact the amount
and timing of depreciation expense for equipment under operating leases and assets held for re-lease. If the estimated residual values declined 10% at December 31, 2009, this would result in a future cumulative pre-tax earnings impact of
approximately $180 million recognized over the remaining depreciable periods, of which approximately $45 million would be recognized in 2010.       Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Impairments       Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not
amortized but are annually tested for impairment, and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. April 1 is our annual testing date. We test goodwill for impairment by first
comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the
        
   45   

Table of Contents  

amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its carrying value. The shortfall of the
fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment.      We estimate the fair values of the related operations using discounted
cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future sales and operating costs, based primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market
conditions. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any.      The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an
appropriate discount rate derived from our market capitalization plus a suitable control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price may also affect the amount of impairment recorded, if any.      Changes in our forecasts or decreases in the value of our common stock could cause book values of certain operations to exceed their fair values which may result in
goodwill impairment charges in future periods. A 10% decrease in the estimated fair value of any of our operations would have no impact on the carrying value of goodwill.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $499 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Jeppesen and Aviall brand and trade names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles
for impairment by comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any excess carrying value over the amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment. A
10% decrease in the discounted cash flows would have no impact on the carrying value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets.       Postretirement
Plans       Substantially all our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans. We also have other postretirement benefits consisting
principally of healthcare coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Accounting rules require an annual measurement of our projected obligations and plan assets. These measurements require several assumptions. Significant assumptions
include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend rate (rate of growth for medical costs). Future changes in assumptions or differences between actual and expected outcomes can significantly affect our future
annual expense, projected benefit obligations and Shareholders  equity.      In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our pension and other
postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 25 basis point change in the discount rate as of December 31, 2009.       
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

   Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. A decrease or increase of
25 basis points in the expected long-term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2009 net periodic pension expense by $117 million.      Differences between actual and expected returns can affect future year s pension cost. The asset balance used to calculate the expected return on pension plan assets is a calculated value that recognizes changes in the fair value of
assets over a five year period. Despite investment gains during 2009, the significant losses incurred during 2008 will cause net periodic pension cost for 2010 to increase by approximately $100 million due to amortization of actuarial losses. Absent
a recovery of asset values or higher interest rates or higher contributions, net periodic pension expense will increase further in future years.      The
assumed medical trend rates have a significant effect on the following year s expense, recorded liabilities and Shareholders  Equity. In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and
net periodic cost to a 100 basis point change as of December 31, 2009.       

(dollars in millions)   
      
  Change in medical trend rate Increase 100 bps  
      
  Change in medical trend rate Decrease 100 bps  

Other postretirement benefit plans   

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  617  
      
  $  
  (541  
  )    
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   

119  

(104  
  )    

47   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
   Interest Rate Risk       We have financial instruments that are
subject to interest rate risk, principally fixed-rate debt obligations, and customer financing assets and liabilities. Additionally, BCC uses interest rate swaps with certain debt obligations to manage exposure to interest rate changes. Exposure to
this risk is managed by generally matching the profile of BCC s liabilities with that of BCC s assets in relation to amount and terms such as expected maturities and fixed versus floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, the
impact to BCC s pre-tax earnings of a 100 basis point immediate and sustained rise in interest rates would be insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2010. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on our investments
or customer financing assets and liabilities due to interest rate changes.      Based on the portfolio of other Boeing fixed-rate debt, the unhedged
exposure to interest rate risk is not material. The investors in the fixed-rate debt obligations that we issue do not generally have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not
believed to be material for our fixed-rate debt.       Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk       We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies. We use foreign currency
forward and option contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to our ongoing business. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are sensitive to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2009, a 10% increase in the exchange rate in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have decreased our unrealized gains by $136 million and a 10% decrease in the exchange rate would
have increased our unrealized gains by $150 million. At December 31, 2008, a 10% increase in the exchange rate in our portfolio of foreign currency forward and option contracts would have decreased our unrealized losses by $70 million and a 10%
decrease in the exchange rate would have decreased our unrealized losses by $196 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by
corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward currency contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments do not create material market risk.
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements        
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

      The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Operations        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 55   112.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

      The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Financial Position        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 55   112.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

      The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
    See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 55   112.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

      The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity        
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

See notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 55   112.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

      The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Summary of Business Segment Data        
    This information is an integral part of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. See Note 21 for further segment results.
        
   55   

Table of Contents  

    The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007        (Dollars in millions, except per share data)          Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation       The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
report have been prepared by management of The Boeing Company (herein referred to as  Boeing,  the  Company,   we,   us,  or  our ). These statements include the accounts of all majority-owned
subsidiaries and variable interest entities that are required to be consolidated. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard which was retrospectively applied and requires the noncontrolling interest to be separately presented as a component of shareholders  equity on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position and Shareholders  Equity. The impact of this standard was not material to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Use of Estimates       Management makes assumptions and estimates to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Those assumptions and estimates directly affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant estimates for which changes in the near term are considered reasonably
possible and that may have a material impact on the financial statements are disclosed in these notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Operating Cycle       For classification of certain current assets and liabilities, we use the duration of the related contract or program as
our operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year and could exceed 3 years.       Revenue and Related Cost Recognition        Contract Accounting  Contract accounting is used for development and production activities predominantly by Boeing Defense, Space   Security (BDS)
(formerly IDS). The majority of business conducted by BDS is performed under contracts with the U.S. government and other customers that extend over several years. Contract accounting involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales and
costs for each contract resulting in the development of estimated cost of sales percentages. For each contract, the amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage to the amount of revenue
recognized.      We combine contracts for accounting purposes when they are negotiated as a package with an overall profit margin objective, essentially
represent an agreement to do a single project for a single customer, involve interrelated construction activities with substantial common costs, and are performed concurrently or sequentially. When a group of contracts is combined, revenue and
profit are earned uniformly over the performance of the combined contracts.      Sales related to fixed-price contracts are recognized as deliveries are
made, except for certain fixed-price contracts that require substantial performance over an extended period before deliveries begin, for which sales are recorded based on the attainment of performance milestones. Sales related to contracts in which
we are reimbursed for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit are recorded as
        
   56   

Table of Contents  

costs are incurred. The Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in establishing contract price. Contracts may contain provisions to earn
incentive and award fees if specified targets are achieved. Incentive and award fees that can be reasonably estimated and are probable are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentive and award fees that cannot be reasonably
estimated are recorded when awarded.       Program Accounting  Our Commercial Airplanes segment predominantly uses program accounting to account for
cost of sales related to its programs. Program accounting is applicable to products manufactured for delivery under production-type contracts where profitability is realized over multiple contracts and years. Under program accounting, inventoriable
production costs, program tooling costs, and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged to cost of sales by program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of a
product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue
and cost of existing and anticipated contracts. To establish the relationship of sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a program, (b) the period over which the
units can reasonably be expected to be produced, and (c) the units  expected sales prices, production costs, program tooling, and routine warranty costs for the total program.      We recognize sales for commercial airplane deliveries as each unit is completed and accepted by the customer. Sales recognized represent the price negotiated with the customer, adjusted by an escalation formula as
specified in the customer agreement. The amount reported as cost of sales is determined by applying the estimated cost of sales percentage for the total remaining program to the amount of sales recognized for airplanes delivered and accepted by the
customer.       Concession Sharing Arrangements  We account for sales concessions to our customers in consideration of their purchase of products and
services as a reduction to revenue when the related products and services are delivered. The sales concessions incurred may be partially reimbursed by certain suppliers in accordance with concession sharing arrangements. We record these
reimbursements, which are presumed to represent reductions in the price of the vendor s products or services, as a reduction in Cost of products.       Spare Parts Revenue  We recognize sales of spare parts upon delivery and the amount reported as cost of sales is recorded at average cost.       Service Revenue  Service revenue is recognized when the service is performed with the exception of U.S. government service agreements, which are accounted for using contract accounting. Service activities primarily include: support
agreements associated with military aircraft and helicopter contracts, ongoing maintenance of International Space Station and Space Shuttle, commercial Delta launches and technical and flight operation services for commercial aircraft. Service
revenue and associated cost of sales from pay-in-advance subscription fees are deferred and recognized as services are rendered.       Financial Services
Revenue  We record financial services revenue associated with sales-type finance leases, operating leases, and notes receivable.      Lease and financing
revenue arrangements are included in Sales of services on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For sales-type finance leases, we record an asset at lease inception. This asset is recorded at the aggregate future minimum lease payments,
estimated residual value of the leased equipment, and deferred incremental direct costs less unearned income. Income is recognized over the life of the lease to approximate a level rate of return on the net investment. Residual values,
        
   57   

Table of Contents  

which are reviewed periodically, represent the estimated amount we expect to receive at lease termination from the disposition of the leased equipment. Actual residual values realized could
differ from these estimates. Declines in estimated residual value that are deemed other-than-temporary are recognized as Cost of services in the period in which the declines occur.      For operating leases, revenue on leased aircraft and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Operating lease assets, included in Customer financing, are recorded at cost and
depreciated over the period that we project we will hold the asset to an estimated residual value, using the straight-line method. Prepayments received on operating lease contracts are classified as Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. We periodically review our estimates of residual value and recognize forecasted changes by prospectively adjusting depreciation expense.      For notes receivable, notes are recorded net of any unamortized discounts and deferred incremental direct costs. Interest income and amortization of any discounts are recorded ratably over the related term of the
note.       Reinsurance Revenue  Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, Astro Ltd., participates in a reinsurance pool for workers  compensation.
The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance pool minimize any participating members  individual risk. Reinsurance revenues were $122, $83 and $84 during 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. Reinsurance costs related to premiums and
claims paid to the reinsurance pool were $118, $86, and $93 during 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. Revenues and costs are presented net in Cost of services in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       Fleet Support       We provide assistance and services to facilitate
efficient and safe aircraft operation to the operators of all our commercial airplane models. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services include flight and maintenance training, field service support, engineering
services, and technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training, manuals, and technical consulting support. This activity continues throughout the aircraft s operational
life. Services provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair, and operational issues brought forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the issuance of service bulletins
that impact the entire model s fleet. Field service support involves our personnel located at customer facilities providing and coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred as Cost of
services.       Research and Development       Research and
development includes costs incurred for experimentation, design, testing, and bid and proposal efforts related to government products and services and are expensed as incurred unless the costs are related to certain contractual arrangements. Costs
that are incurred pursuant to such contractual arrangements are recorded over the period that revenue is recognized, consistent with our contract accounting policy. We have certain research and development arrangements that meet the requirement for
best efforts research and development accounting. Accordingly, the amounts funded by the customer are recognized as an offset to our research and development expense rather than as contract revenues.      We have established cost sharing arrangements with some suppliers for the 787 program, which have enhanced our internal development capabilities and have offset a
substantial portion of the financial
        
   58   

Table of Contents  

risk of developing this aircraft. Our cost sharing arrangements state that the supplier contributions are for reimbursements of costs we incur for experimentation, basic design, and testing
activities during the 787 development. In each arrangement, we retain substantial rights to the 787 part or component covered by the arrangement. The amounts received from these cost sharing arrangements are recorded as a reduction to research and
development expenses since we have no obligation to refund any amounts received per the arrangements regardless of the outcome of the development efforts. Specifically, under the terms of each agreement, payments received from suppliers for their
share of the costs are typically based on milestones and are recognized as earned when we achieve the milestone events and no ongoing obligation on our part exists. In the event we receive a milestone payment prior to the completion of the
milestone, the amount is classified in Other accrued liabilities until earned.       Share-Based Compensation       We provide various forms of share-based compensation to our employees. For awards settled in shares, we measure compensation expense based on the grant-date fair value
net of estimated forfeitures. For awards settled in cash, or that may be settled in cash, we measure compensation expense based on the fair value at each reporting date net of estimated forfeitures. The expense is recognized over the requisite
service period, which is generally the vesting period of the award.       Income Taxes       Provisions for federal, state, and non-U.S. income taxes are calculated on reported Earnings before income taxes based on current tax law and also include, in the current period, the cumulative effect of any
changes in tax rates from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such provisions differ from the amounts currently receivable or payable because certain items of income and expense are recognized in different time
periods for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions.      The accounting for uncertainty in income taxes requires a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We record
a liability for the difference between the benefit recognized and measured for financial statement purposes and the tax position taken or expected to be taken on our tax return. To the extent that our assessment of such tax positions changes, the
change in estimate is recorded in the period in which the determination is made. Tax-related interest and penalties are classified as a component of Income tax expense.       Postretirement Plans       We sponsor various pension plans covering substantially all employees. We also provide
postretirement benefit plans other than pensions, consisting principally of health care coverage to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Benefits under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at
retirement and years of service and, for some pension plans, benefits are also based on the employee s annual earnings. The net periodic cost of our pension and other postretirement plans is determined using the projected unit credit method and
several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the long-term rate of asset return, and medical trend (rate of growth for medical costs). A portion of net periodic pension and other postretirement income or
expense is not recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs, and reflected in inventory at the end of a reporting period. If gains and losses, which occur when actual experience differs from
actuarial assumptions, exceed ten percent of the greater of plan assets or plan liabilities we amortize them over the average future
        
   59   

Table of Contents  

service period of employees. The funded status of our pension and postretirement plans is reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Effective December 31, 2008,
accounting standards required us to measure our plan assets and benefit obligations at December 31, the date of our year end. We previously performed this measurement at September 30 of each year.       Postemployment Plans       We record a liability for postemployment
benefits, such as severance or job training, when payment is probable, the amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated.       Environmental Remediation       We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment,
including those for discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. We routinely assess, based on in-depth studies, expert analyses and legal reviews, our contingencies, obligations, and commitments for remediation of
contaminated sites, including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties who have and have not agreed to a settlement and of recoveries from insurance carriers. Our policy is to accrue and charge to current
expense identified exposures related to environmental remediation sites based on our best estimate within a range of potential exposure for investigation, cleanup, and monitoring costs to be incurred. Estimated remediation costs are not discounted
to present value as the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. We may be able to recover a portion of the remediation costs from insurers or other third-parties. Such recoveries are recorded when realization of the claim for recovery is
deemed probable.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash
and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, time deposits, and other money market instruments, which have original maturities of three months or less. We aggregate our cash balances
by bank, and reclassify any negative balances to Accounts payable. Accounts payable included $211 and $157 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, attributable to checks written but not yet cleared by the bank.       Inventories       Inventoried costs on commercial aircraft programs
and long-term contracts include direct engineering, production and tooling costs, and applicable overhead, which includes fringe benefits, production related indirect and plant management salaries and plant services, not in excess of estimated net
realizable value. To the extent a material amount of such costs are related to an abnormal event or are fixed costs not appropriately attributable to our programs or contracts, they are expensed in the current period rather than inventoried.
Inventoried costs include amounts relating to programs and contracts with long-term production cycles, a portion of which is not expected to be realized within one year. Included in inventory for federal government contracts is an allocation of
allowable costs related to manufacturing process reengineering.      Because of the higher unit production costs experienced at the beginning of a new or
derivative commercial airplane program, the actual costs incurred for production of the early units in the program may exceed the amount reported as cost of sales for those units. In addition, the use of a total program gross profit rate to
delivered units may result in costs assigned to delivered units in a reporting period being less than the actual cost of those units. The excess actual costs incurred over the amount reported as cost of sales is disclosed as deferred production
costs, which are included in inventory along with unamortized tooling costs.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   The determination of net realizable value of long-term contract costs is based upon quarterly reviews that determine
an estimate of costs to be incurred to complete all contract requirements. When actual contract costs and the estimate to complete exceed total estimated contract revenues, a loss provision is recorded. The determination of net realizable value of
commercial aircraft program costs is based upon quarterly program reviews that determine an estimate of revenue and cost to be incurred to complete the program accounting quantity. When estimated costs to complete exceed estimated program revenues
to go, a program loss provision is recorded in the current period for the estimated loss on all undelivered units in the accounting quantity.      Used
aircraft purchased by the Commercial Airplanes segment and general stock materials are stated at cost not in excess of net realizable value. See  Aircraft valuation  within this Note for our valuation of used aircraft. Spare parts
inventory is stated at lower of average unit cost or market. We review our commercial spare parts and general stock materials quarterly to identify impaired inventory, including excess or obsolete inventory, based on historical sales trends,
expected production usage, and the size and age of the aircraft fleet using the part. Impaired inventories are charged to Cost of products in the period the impairment occurs.      Included in inventory for commercial aircraft programs are amounts paid or credited in cash, or other consideration to certain airline customers, that are referred to as early issue sales consideration. Early issue
sales consideration is recognized as a reduction to revenue when the delivery of the aircraft under contract occurs. In the unlikely situation that an airline customer was not able to perform and take delivery of the contracted aircraft, we believe
that we would have the ability to recover amounts paid through retaining amounts secured by advances received on aircraft to be delivered. However, to the extent early issue sales consideration exceeds advances and is not considered to be
recoverable, it would be recognized as a current period expense.      We net advances and progress billings on long-term contracts against inventory in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Advances and progress billings in excess of related inventory are reported in Advances and billings in excess of related costs.       Precontract Costs       We may, from time to time, incur costs to begin fulfilling the statement of work under a
specific anticipated contract that we are still negotiating with a customer. If we determine it is probable that we will be awarded the specific anticipated contract, then we capitalize the precontract costs we incur, excluding any start-up costs
which are expensed as incurred. Capitalized precontract costs of $183 and $350 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, are included in Inventories, net of advances and progress billings, in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
      Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant
and equipment are recorded at cost, including applicable construction-period interest, less accumulated depreciation and are depreciated principally over the following estimated useful lives: new buildings and land improvements, from 10 to 40 years;
and new machinery and equipment, from 3 to 20 years. The principal methods of depreciation are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 150% declining balance; and machinery and equipment, sum-of-the-years  digits. Capitalized internal
use software is included in Other assets and amortized using the straight line method over five years. We periodically evaluate the appropriateness of remaining depreciable lives assigned to long-lived assets, including assets that may be subject to
a management plan for disposition.      Long-lived assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Long-lived assets
held for use are subject to an impairment assessment whenever events or changes in
        
   61   

Table of Contents  

circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset, the amount of
the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.       Asset Retirement Obligations       We record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability s fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset
decommissioning and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts are not material.      We also have known conditional asset retirement
obligations, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that are not reasonably estimable due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation.
Accordingly, these obligations have not been recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. A liability for these obligations will be recorded in the period when sufficient information regarding timing and method of settlement becomes available
to make a reasonable estimate of the liability s fair value. In addition, there may be conditional asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (e.g. asbestos may exist in certain buildings but we have not become aware of it
through the normal course of business), and therefore, these obligations also have not been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangibles       Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are
tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. Our annual testing date is April 1.      We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of net assets to the fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be
less than carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. In this process, a fair value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of the operations, and is compared to its carrying value. The
shortfall of the fair value below carrying value represents the amount of goodwill impairment.      Indefinite-lived intangibles consist of brand and trade
names acquired in business combinations. We test these intangibles for impairment by comparing their carrying value to current projections of discounted cash flows attributable to the brand and trade names. Any excess carrying value over the amount
of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment.      Our finite-lived acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives as follows: developed technology, from 3 to 14 years; product know-how, from 3 to 30 years; customer base, from 1 to 19 years; distribution rights, from 9 to 30 years; and other, from 1 to 32 years. We evaluate the
potential impairment of finite-lived acquired intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future
cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.       Investments
      We classify investment securities as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Held-to-maturity securities include time deposits and are
carried at cost.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   Available-for-sale securities include marketable debt and equity securities and Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificates
and are recorded at their fair values, with unrealized gains and losses reported as part of Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Realized gains and losses on marketable securities are recognized
based on the cost of securities using the first-in, first-out method. Realized gains and losses on all other available-for-sale securities are recognized based on specific identification.      Available-for-sale securities are assessed for impairment quarterly. To determine if an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider the duration and severity of
the loss position, the strength of the underlying collateral, the term to maturity, credit rating and our intent to sell. For debt securities that are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired and there is no intent to sell, impairments are separated
into the amount related to the credit loss, which is recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. For debt securities that are deemed
other-than-temporarily impaired and there is an intent to sell, impairments in their entirety are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For equity securities that are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, impairments in their
entirety are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Payments received on other-than-temporarily impaired investments are recorded using the cost recovery method.      The equity method of accounting is used to account for investments for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to
exist if we have an ownership interest in the voting stock of an investee of between 20% and 50%.      We classify investment income and loss on our
Consolidated Statements of Operations based on whether the investment is operating or non-operating in nature. Operating investments align strategically and are integrated with our operations. Earnings from operating investments, including our share
of income or loss from equity method investments, dividend income from certain cost method investments, and any impairments or gain/loss on the disposition of these investments, are recorded in Income from operating investments, net. Non-operating
investments are those we hold for non-strategic purposes. Earnings from non-operating investments, including interest and dividends on marketable securities, and any impairments or gain/loss on the disposition of these investments are recorded in
Other (expense)/income, net.       Derivatives       All
derivative instruments are recognized in the financial statements and measured at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent of holding them. We use derivative instruments to principally manage a variety of market risks. For derivatives
designated as hedges of the exposure to changes in fair value of the recognized asset or liability or a firm commitment (referred to as fair value hedges), the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the
offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. The effect of that accounting is to include in earnings the extent to which the hedge is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. For our cash flow
hedges, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported in Shareholders  equity (as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss) and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the same period or
periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss of a cash flow hedge is reported in earnings immediately. We also hold certain instruments for economic purposes that are not
designated for hedge accounting treatment. For these derivative instruments, the changes in their fair value are also recorded in earnings immediately.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Aircraft Valuation        Used aircraft under trade-in commitments and aircraft under repurchase commitments  In conjunction with signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft), we have entered into specified-price trade-in
commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in used aircraft upon the purchase of Sale Aircraft. Additionally, we have entered into contingent repurchase commitments with certain customers wherein we agree to repurchase the
Sale Aircraft at a specified price, generally ten years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft. If we execute an
agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft, and if the customer exercises its right to sell the Sale Aircraft to us, a contingent repurchase commitment would become a trade-in commitment. Our historical experience is that no contingent
repurchase agreements have become trade-in commitments.      All trade-in commitments at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are solely attributable to Sale
Aircraft and did not originate from contingent repurchase agreements. Exposure related to trade-in commitments may take the form of:       

(1)  
     
  Adjustments to revenue for the difference between the contractual trade-in price in the definitive agreement and our best estimate of the fair value of the trade-in aircraft as
of the date of such agreement, which would be recorded in Inventory and recognized upon delivery of the Sale Aircraft, and/or         

(2)  
     
  Charges to cost of products for adverse changes in the fair value of trade-in aircraft that occur subsequent to signing of a definitive agreement for Sale Aircraft but prior to
the purchase of the used trade-in aircraft. Estimates based on current aircraft values would be included in Other accrued liabilities.        The fair value of trade-in aircraft is determined using aircraft specific data such as model, age and condition, market conditions for specific aircraft and similar models, and multiple valuation sources. This process uses our assessment of
the market for each trade-in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are several possible markets in which we continually pursue opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include, but are not
limited to, the resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long-term storage; the leasing market, with the potential for refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customer s requirements; or the scrap market. Trade-in aircraft
valuation varies significantly depending on which market we determine is most likely for each aircraft. On a quarterly basis, we update our valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each aircraft into a market. This
quarterly valuation process yields results that are typically lower than residual value estimates by independent sources and tends to more accurately reflect results upon the actual placement of the aircraft.      Used aircraft acquired by the Commercial Airplanes segment are included in Inventories at the lower of cost or market as it is our intent to sell these assets. To
mitigate costs and enhance marketability, aircraft may be placed on operating lease. While on operating lease, the assets are included in Customer financing; however, the valuation continues to be based on the lower of cost or market. The lower of
cost or market assessment is performed quarterly using the process described above.       Asset valuation for assets under operating lease, assets held
for sale or re-lease and collateral underlying receivables  Customer financing includes operating lease equipment, notes receivables, and sales-type/financing leases. Sales-type/financing leases are treated as receivables, and allowances for
losses are established as necessary.      We assess the fair value of the assets we own, including equipment under operating leases, assets held for sale or
re-lease, and collateral underlying receivables, to determine if their fair values are less
        
   64   

Table of Contents  

than the related assets  carrying values. Differences between carrying values and fair values of finance leases and notes and other receivables, as determined by collateral value, are
considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables.      We use a median calculated from published collateral values from multiple
third-party aircraft value publications based on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances, we apply judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft or equipment, usually when the
features or use of the aircraft vary significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications.       Impairment review for
assets under operating leases and held for sale or re-lease  We evaluate for impairment assets under operating lease or assets held for sale or re-lease when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the expected undiscounted cash flow
from the asset may be less than the carrying value. We use various assumptions when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow including our intentions for how long we will hold an asset subject to operating lease before it is sold, the
expected future lease rates, lease terms, residual value of the asset, periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and the remaining economic life of the asset. We state assets
held for sale at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.      When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount
of impairment expense recorded is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.       Allowance for losses on customer financing
receivables  We record the potential impairment of customer financing receivables in our portfolio in a valuation account, the balance of which is an accounting estimate of probable but unconfirmed losses in the receivables portfolio. The
allowance for losses on receivables relates to two components of receivables: (a) specifically identified receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment and (b) all other receivables.      We determine a receivable is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts due according to the
original contractual terms of the receivable agreement, without regard to any subsequent restructurings. Factors considered in assessing collectibility include, but are not limited to, a customer s extended delinquency, requests for
restructuring and filings for bankruptcy. We determine a specific impairment allowance based on the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair value of the related collateral.      We review the adequacy of the allowance attributable to the remaining receivables (after excluding receivables subject to a specific impairment allowance) by
assessing both the collateral exposure and the applicable cumulative default rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value of the receivable over the fair value of the related collateral. A receivable with
an estimated fair value in excess of the carrying value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable cumulative default rate is determined using two components: customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining contract term.
Credit ratings are determined for each customer in the portfolio. Those ratings are updated based upon public information and information obtained directly from our customers.      We have entered into agreements with certain customers that would entitle us to look beyond the specific collateral underlying the receivable for purposes of determining the collateral exposure as described above.
Should the proceeds from the sale of the underlying collateral asset resulting from a default condition be insufficient to cover the carrying value of our receivable (creating a shortfall condition), these agreements would, for example, permit us to
take the actions necessary to sell or retain certain other assets in which the customer has an equity interest and use the proceeds to cover the shortfall.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

   Each quarter we review customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for different rating
categories, and multiple third party aircraft value publications as a basis to validate the reasonableness of the allowance for losses on receivables. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from estimates or that the
consideration of these factors in the future will not result in an increase or decrease to the allowance for losses on receivables.       Warranties  
     In conjunction with certain product sales, we provide warranties that cover factors such as non-conformance to specifications and defects in material
and design. The majority of our warranties are issued by our Commercial Airplanes segment. Generally, aircraft sales are accompanied by a three to four-year standard warranty for systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by
us or manufactured to certain standards under our authorization. These warranties are included in the programs  estimate at completion. Additionally, on occasion we have made commitments beyond the standard warranty obligation to correct
fleet-wide major issues of a particular model. These costs are expensed as incurred. Warranties issued by our BDS segments principally relate to sales of military aircraft and weapons hardware and are included in the contract cost estimates. These
sales are generally accompanied by a six to twelve-month warranty period and cover systems, accessories, equipment, parts, and software manufactured by us to certain contractual specifications. Estimated costs related to standard warranties are
recorded in the period in which the related product sales occur. The warranty liability recorded at each balance sheet date reflects the estimated number of months of warranty coverage outstanding for products delivered times the average of
historical monthly warranty payments, as well as additional amounts for certain major warranty issues that exceed a normal claims level. Estimated costs of these additional warranty issues are considered changes to the initial liability estimate.
      Supplier Penalties       We record an accrual for
supplier penalties when an event occurs that makes it probable that a supplier penalty will be incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Until an event occurs, we fully anticipate accepting all products procured under production-related
contracts.       Guarantees       We record a liability in
Other accrued liabilities for the fair value of guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002. For a residual value guarantee where we received a cash premium, the liability is equal to the cash premium received at the
guarantee s inception. For credit and performance guarantees, the liability is equal to the present value of the expected loss. We determine the expected loss by multiplying the creditor s default rate by the guarantee amount reduced by
the expected recovery, if applicable, for each future period the credit or performance guarantee will be outstanding. If at inception of a guarantee, we determine there is a probable related contingent loss, we will recognize a liability for the
greater of (a) the fair value of the guarantee as described above or (b) the probable contingent loss amount.         Note 2   Acquisitions        Vought Aircraft Industries Inc.       On July 30, 2009, we acquired the business, assets and operations of Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. s (Vought) 787 business conducted at North Charleston,
South Carolina. In connection with the acquisition, we paid cash consideration of $590 and released Vought from its obligation to repay amounts of $416 previously advanced by us. Vought s 787 business produces aft fuselage sections,
        
   66   

Table of Contents  

including the fabrication, assembly and systems installation, for the 787 program. The acquisition of Vought is intended to strengthen our 787 program and bolster our capability to develop and
produce large composite structures. The results of operations from the acquisition date are included in our Commercial Airplanes  segment.      The
final allocation of the purchase price is as follows:       

1     
     
    The weighted average amortization period for finite-lived intangible assets is 17 years.          Other Acquisitions       As part of an acquisition made in 2008, we
may be required to pay up to an additional $48 of purchase price for contingent consideration. The additional consideration is due in the event specified targets are achieved over a three year period and will be recorded if the targets are met.
        Note 3   Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles       Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       

2     
     
    The increase in goodwill is primarily the result of nine acquisitions during 2008. The purchase price allocations for five acquisitions were finalized during
2008. The purchase price allocations for the remaining four acquisitions were finalized in the first and second quarters of 2009.         As
of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets with carrying amounts of $499 relating to tradenames.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization of our acquired finite-lived intangible assets were as follows
at December 31:       
    Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
2008 was $207 and $166. Estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years is as follows: 2010   $239; 2011   $196; 2012   $191; 2013   $167 and 2014   $157.      Non-cash investing and financing transactions related to acquired finite-lived intangibles during 2009 and 2008 were $329 and $235. Total acquired finite-lived
intangibles of $604 and $275 remain unpaid as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.         Note 4   Earnings Per Share  
     The weighted-average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per share are as follows:       
    Basic earnings per share is calculated by the sum of (1) net earnings less declared dividends and dividend
equivalents related to share-based compensation divided by the basic weighted average shares outstanding and (2) declared dividends and dividend equivalents related to share-based compensation divided by the weighted average shares outstanding.
     The weighted-average number of shares outstanding, included in the table below, is excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because
the average market price did not exceed the exercise/threshold price. However, these shares may be dilutive potential common shares in the future.       
       
   68   

Table of Contents  

      Note 5   Income Taxes       The components of earnings before income taxes were:       
    Income tax expense/(benefit) consisted of the following:   
   
    Net income tax payments/(refunds) were ($198), $599 and $711 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Our effective income tax rate was 22.9%, 33.6%, and 33.7% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower
in 2009 primarily because tax credits such as Research and Development credits represented a higher proportion of earnings before taxes due to the year-over-year reduction in earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory
tax rate of 35% to our effective income tax rate:       
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

   Significant components of our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, at December 31 were as
follows:       
     
    Net deferred tax assets at December 31 were as follows:       
    The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon available evidence,
it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Included in the net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are deferred tax assets in the amounts of $7,226 and $8,134 related to other
comprehensive income.      We have provided for U.S. deferred income taxes and foreign withholding tax in the amount of $55 on undistributed earnings not
considered permanently reinvested in our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We have not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding tax on the remainder of undistributed earnings from our non-U.S. subsidiaries because such earnings are
considered to be permanently reinvested and it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that may be payable upon distribution.      As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the amount of accrued income tax-related interest and penalties included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position was as follows: interest of $271 and $215, and penalties of $14 and $14. The amount of
interest accrued during 2009 was $45.      The years 2004-2006 are currently being examined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and we have filed appeals
with the IRS for 1998-2003. We are also subject to examination in major state and international jurisdictions for the 2001-2009 tax years. We believe appropriate provisions for all outstanding issues have been made for all jurisdictions and all open
years         
   70   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1,787 and $1,453, of
which $1,452 and $1,171 would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized. These amounts are primarily associated with U.S. federal tax issues such as the tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI) tax rules,
the amount of research and development tax credits claimed, U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, and valuation issues regarding charitable contributions claimed. Also included in these amounts are accruals for domestic state tax issues such as the
allocation of income among various state tax jurisdictions and the amount of state tax credits claimed.      Audit outcomes and the timing of audit
settlements are subject to significant uncertainty. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will resolve some or all of the matters presently under consideration for 1998-2006 with the IRS. Depending on the timing and outcomes of
the audit settlements, unrecognized tax benefits that affect the effective tax rate could increase earnings by up to $600 based on current estimates.      The Research and Development credit expired on December 31, 2009. Congress is currently considering bills that will extend the credit. If the Research and Development credit is not legislatively enacted there would be an unfavorable
impact on our 2010 effective income tax rate.         Note 6   Accounts Receivable       Accounts receivable at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    The following table summarizes our accounts receivable under long-term contracts that were not billable or
related to outstanding claims as of December 31:       
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

   Unbillable receivables on long-term contracts arise when the sales or revenues based on performance attainment, though
appropriately recognized, cannot be billed yet under terms of the contract as of the balance sheet date. Accounts receivable related to claims are items that we believe are earned, but are subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or
ultimate realization. Accounts receivable, other than those described above, expected to be collected after one year are not material.       Sea Launch
      On June 22, 2009, the Sea Launch venture, in which Boeing Commercial Satellite Company (BCSC), a subsidiary of The Boeing Company, is a 40%
partner with S.P. Koroley Rocket and Space Corporation Energia of Russia (25%), Aker ASA of Norway (Aker) (20%), PO Yuzhnoye Mashinostroitelny Zavod of Ukraine (10%) and KB Yuzhnoye of Ukraine (5%), filed a voluntary petition for relief under
Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Chapter 11 Filing). The Chapter 11 Filing constituted an event of default or otherwise accelerated approximately $448 of
outstanding indebtedness of Sea Launch for which we and an affiliate of Aker had previously issued credit guarantees on a joint-and-several basis. On July 1, 2009, we paid the entire $448 due under our guarantee. Among other options, we have
rights to reimbursement from Sea Launch as well as the other Sea Launch partners, who are each obligated to reimburse us so that we contribute no more than our proportional ownership percentage (40% or $179) in Sea Launch of the aggregate guarantee
payment obligations. On September 11, 2009, an affiliate of Aker executed a promissory note which obligates it to pay us $122 in three payments. The first payment of $40 was received in December 2009 and the final two payments are due in 2010.
On October 19, 2009, we filed a Notice of Arbitration with the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce seeking reimbursement from the other Sea Launch partners of the remaining $147 related to our guarantee payment.      In addition, as a result of the Sea Launch bankruptcy, $523 of principal and interest associated with a loan by BCSC also become repayable by Sea Launch. Certain
other Sea Launch partners have guaranteed portions of this loan (collectively, 40% of the total amount is guaranteed). We have also filed certain proofs of claim in the bankruptcy on account of various goods and services provided to Sea Launch prior
to the bankruptcy filing.      We intend to pursue vigorously all of our rights and remedies against Sea Launch and the other Sea Launch partners with
respect to the amounts described above.      Receivables at December 31, 2009 consisted of the following:       
    In the event we are unable to secure reimbursement from Sea Launch or
certain Sea Launch partners of $229 related to our payment under the credit guarantees and $209 related to the previously made loans to Sea Launch, we could incur additional pre-tax charges of up to $438.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Sea Launch management continues to operate the business and has obtained debtor-in-possession financing to address
cash needs. In October 2009, the bankruptcy court granted Sea Launch a three month extension to file a reorganization plan, and Sea Launch s motion requesting an additional extension through April 14, 2010 is scheduled to be heard on
March 4, 2010.         Note 7   Inventories       Inventories at December 31 consisted of the following:       
     Long-Term Contracts in Progress       Delta launch program inventories that will be sold at cost to United Launch Alliance (ULA) under an inventory supply agreement that terminates on March 31, 2021 are included in long-term contracts in progress
inventories. At December 31, 2009, and 2008, the inventory balance was $1,685 (net of $120 of advances received under the inventory supply agreement) and $1,822, of which $1,070 relates to yet unsold launches at December 31, 2009. ULA is
continuing to assess the future of the Delta II program. In the event ULA is unable to sell additional Delta II inventory, earnings could be reduced by up to $62.       Commercial Aircraft Programs       Inventory includes deferred production costs which represent commercial aircraft
programs production costs incurred on in-process and delivered units in excess of the estimated average cost of such units. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the balance of deferred production costs and unamortized tooling related to commercial
aircraft programs in production, except the 777 and 787 programs, was insignificant relative to the programs  balance-to-go estimates. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, all significant excess deferred production costs or unamortized
tooling costs are recoverable from existing firm orders for the 777 program.      For the 777 program, inventory included $510 and $1,223 for deferred
production cost, and $211 and $255 of unamortized tooling at December 31, 2009 and 2008.      For the 787 program, inventory included $3,885 and $3,021
of work in process (including deferred production costs), $2,187 and $2,548 of supplier advances, and $1,231 and $755 of tooling and other non-recurring costs at December 31, 2009 and 2008. In August 2009, we concluded that the first three
flight-test airplanes for the 787 program will not be sold as previously anticipated due to the inordinate amount of rework and unique and extensive modifications made to those aircraft. Therefore, $2,481 in costs previously recorded for the first
three flight-test airplanes were reclassified from program inventory to Research and development expense during the third quarter of 2009. Additionally, production costs incurred from August to December 2009 of $212 related to these flight-test
airplanes were also included in research and development expense.      Commercial aircraft program inventory included amounts credited in cash or other
consideration (early issue sales consideration), to airline customers totaling $1,577 and $1,271 at December 31, 2009 and 2008.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Spare Parts, Used Aircraft, General Stock Materials and Other       As a normal course of our Commercial Airplanes segment production process, our inventory may include a small quantity of airplanes that are completed but unsold. As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the value of completed but unsold aircraft in inventory was insignificant. Inventory balances included $235 subject to claims or other uncertainties relating to the A-12 program at December 31, 2009 and 2008
(See Note 20).         Note 8   Customer Financing       Customer financing at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    The components of investment in sales-type/finance leases at December 31 were as follows:       
    Aircraft financing operating lease equipment primarily includes jet and commuter aircraft. At December 31,
2009 and 2008, aircraft financing operating lease equipment included $385 and $685 of equipment available for sale or re-lease. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had firm lease commitments for $345 and $305 of this equipment.      When our Commercial Airplanes segment is unable to immediately sell used aircraft, it may place the aircraft under an operating lease. It may also provide customer
financing with a note receivable. The carrying amount of the Commercial Airplanes segment used aircraft under operating leases and notes receivable included as a component of customer financing totaled $203 and $232 as of December 31, 2009 and
2008.      Impaired receivables and the allowance for losses on those receivables consisted of the following at December 31:       
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

   The average recorded investment in impaired receivables as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $162, $197,
and $589, respectively. Income recognition is generally suspended for receivables at the date full recovery of income and principal becomes not probable. Income is recognized when receivables become contractually current and performance is
demonstrated by the customer. Interest income recognized on such receivables was $9, $14, and $50 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      The change in the allowance for losses on receivables for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, consisted of the following:       
    Aircraft financing is collateralized by security in the related asset. The value of the collateral is closely tied to commercial
airline performance and may be subject to reduced valuation with market decline. Our financing portfolio has a concentration of various model aircraft. Aircraft financing carrying values related to major aircraft concentrations at December 31
were as follows:       

*  
  Out of production aircraft        We recorded charges related to customer
financing asset impairment in operating earnings, primarily as a result of declines in projected future cash flows. These charges for the years ended December 31 were as follows:       
       
   75   

Table of Contents  

   Scheduled receipts on customer financing are as follows:       
    Customer financing assets leased under capital leases and subleased to others were not significant in 2009 and
2008.         Note 9   Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    Depreciation expense was $1,066, $1,013, and $978 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Interest capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $90, $99, and $117, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $316 and $334 of operating lease properties, net of $262 and $242 of
accumulated depreciation.      Rental expense for leased properties was $273, $426, and $411, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. For the same periods, these expenses, substantially all minimum rentals, were net of sublease income of $9, $14, and $26. At December 31, 2009, minimum rental payments under capital leases aggregated $83, and payments due under
capital leases during the next five years are not material. Minimum rental payments under operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more aggregated $1,159, net of sublease payments of $11, at December 31, 2009.
Non-cancellable future rentals due from customers for equipment on operating leases aggregated $136 at December 31, 2009. Payments due under operating leases net of sublease amounts and non-cancellable future rentals during the next five years
are as follows:       
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

   We had accounts payable related to purchases of property, plant and equipment of $131, $157, and $150 for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.         Note 10   Investments       Our investments, which are recorded in Short-term investments or Investments, consisted of the following at December 31:       
     Available-For-Sale Investments       Our investments in available-for-sale debt and equity securities consisted of the following at December 31:       
    Gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities for the years ended
December 31, were as follows:       
       
   77   

Table of Contents  

   The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2009, were as follows:
      
     Equity Method Investments       Our effective ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments consisted of the following as of December 31:       

(1)     
     
    Credit balances are a result of our proportionate share of the joint venture s pension and postretirement related adjustments which reduce the carrying
value of the investment.            Note 11   Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies        Other Accrued Liabilities       Other accrued liabilities at
December 31 consisted of the following:       

78   

Table of Contents  

    Environmental       The following table summarizes environmental matter activity during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.       
    The liabilities recorded represent our best estimate of costs expected to be incurred to remediate, operate, and maintain sites over
periods of up to 30 years. It is reasonably possible that we may incur additional charges because of regulatory complexities, higher than expected costs and the risk of unidentified contamination. As part of our estimating process, we develop a
range of reasonably possible alternate scenarios which include highest cost estimates to remediate identified contamination at all sites based on our experience and existing laws and regulations. At December 31, 2009 and 2008 our reasonably
possible highest cost estimate for all remediation sites exceeded our recorded liabilities by $948 and $1,206.       Product Warranties       The following table summarizes product warranty activity recorded for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.       
     Discontinued Operations       As
part of the 2004 purchase and sale agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation related to the sale of Boeing Capital Corporation s (BCC) Commercial Financial Services business, BCC is involved in a loss sharing arrangement for losses on
transferred portfolio assets, such as asset sales, provisions for loss or asset impairment charges offset by gains from asset sales. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our maximum future cash exposure to losses associated with the loss sharing
arrangement was $234 and $232. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accrued liability under the loss sharing arrangement was $77 and $39.       Commercial Aircraft Commitments       In conjunction with signing definitive agreements for the sale of new aircraft, we have entered into
specified-price trade-in commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in used
        
   79   

Table of Contents  

aircraft upon the purchase of Sale Aircraft. The total contractual trade-in value was $427 and $1,045 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. We anticipate that a significant portion of these
commitments will not be exercised by customers.      The probability that trade-in commitments will be exercised is determined by using both quantitative
information from valuation sources and qualitative information from other sources. The probability of exercise is continually assessed, taking into consideration the current economic environment. Trade-in commitments, which can be terminated by
mutual consent with the customer, may be exercised only during the period specified in the agreement, and require advance notice by the customer. The estimated fair value of trade-in aircraft related to probable contractual trade-in commitments was
$34 as of December 31, 2009. Trade-in commitment agreements have expiration dates from 2010 through 2023.       Future Lease Commitments
      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, future lease commitments on aircraft and other commitments not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position totaled $159 and $197. These lease commitments extend through 2020, and our intent is to recover these lease commitments through sublease arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, the future lease commitments on aircraft for
each of the next five years were as follows: $16 in 2010, $16 in 2011, $16 in 2012, $16 in 2013, and $16 in 2014. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Other accrued liabilities included $14 and $32 attributable to adverse commitments under these
lease arrangements.       Financing Commitments       Financing commitments totaled $10,409 and $10,145 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. We anticipate that a significant portion of these commitments will not be exercised by the customers as we continue to work with third party financiers
to provide alternative financing to customers. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to fund greater amounts than historically required.      In connection with the formation of ULA, we and Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed) each agreed to extend a line of credit to ULA of up to $200 to support its working capital requirements during the five-year
period following December 1, 2006. ULA did not request any funds under the line of credit as of December 31, 2009. We and Lockheed have also each committed to provide ULA with up to $122 of additional capital contributions in the event ULA
does not have sufficient funds to make a required payment to us under an inventory supply agreement. See Note 7.      We have entered into standby letters
of credit agreements and surety bonds with financial institutions primarily relating to the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit agreements and surety bonds aggregated
approximately $7,052 and $5,763 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.       C-17       At December 31, 2009, our backlog included 11 C-17 aircraft currently under contract with the U.S. Air Force (USAF) as well as international orders for 7 C-17 aircraft. Backlog does not include 8 aircraft
funded in the Fiscal Year 2009 (FY09) supplemental defense spending bill and 10 aircraft funded in the 2010 defense appropriations bill. At December 31, 2009, inventory expenditures and potential termination liabilities to suppliers for
aircraft not included in backlog, primarily the 8 FY09 aircraft, totaled approximately $375. Should additional orders not materialize, it is reasonably possible that we will decide in 2010 to complete production of the C-17. We are still evaluating
the full financial
        
   80   

Table of Contents  

impact of a potential production shut-down, including any recovery that would be available from the U.S. government. Such recovery from the U.S. government would not include the costs incurred by
us resulting from our direction to suppliers to begin working on aircraft beyond those currently under contract with the USAF.       Satellites
      Certain launch and satellite sales contracts include provisions that specify that we bear risk of loss associated with the launch phase through
acceptance in orbit by the customer. We have historically purchased insurance to cover these exposures when allowed under the terms of the contract and when economically advisable. The current insurance market reflects high premium rates and also
suffers from a lack of capacity to handle all insurance requirements. We make decisions on the procurement of insurance based on our analysis of risk. There is a contractual launch scheduled for 2010 for which full insurance coverage may not be
available or, if available, could be prohibitively expensive. We will continue to review this risk. We estimate that the potential uninsured amount for this launch could be approximately $360.       Company Owned Life Insurance       McDonnell Douglas Corporation
insured its executives with Company Owned Life Insurance (COLI), which are life insurance policies with a cash surrender value. Although we do not use COLI currently, these obligations from the merger with McDonnell Douglas are still a commitment at
this time. We have loans in place to cover costs paid or incurred to carry the underlying life insurance policies. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cash surrender value was $360 and $331 and the total loans were $337 and $317. As we have
the right to offset the loans against the cash surrender value of the policies, we present the net asset in Other assets on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.         Note 12   Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk       We enter into arrangements with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business, primarily in the form of guarantees.       Third-Party Guarantees       The following tables provide quantitative data regarding our third-party guarantees. The maximum potential
payments represent a  worst-case scenario,  and do not necessarily reflect our expected results. Estimated proceeds from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties to
offset our payments under guarantees.       
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

*  
     
  Amounts included in Other accrued liabilities     
     Contingent Repurchase Commitments  We have
entered into contingent repurchase commitments with certain customers in conjunction with signing definitive agreements for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft). Under these commitments, we agreed to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a specified
price, generally 10 years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft, and the subsequent exercise by the customer of its
right to sell the Sale Aircraft to us. The repurchase price specified in contingent repurchase commitments is generally lower than the expected fair value at the specified repurchase date. Estimated Proceeds from Collateral/Recourse in the table
above represent the lower of the contracted repurchase price or the expected fair value of each aircraft at the specified repurchase date.          Indemnifications to ULA  We agreed to indemnify ULA against losses in the event that costs associated with $1,360 of Delta launch program inventories included in contributed assets and $1,860 of Delta program inventories subject to an
inventory supply agreement are not recoverable and allowable from existing and future orders. The term of the inventory indemnification extends to December 31, 2020. Since inception, ULA has consumed $1,111 of inventories that were contributed
by us and has made advances of $120 to us under the inventory supply agreement. The table above includes indemnifications to ULA for contributed Delta launch program inventory of $277 and $813, plus $348 related to the pricing of certain contracts
and $57 and $23 related to miscellaneous Delta contracts at December 31, 2009 and 2008.      We agreed to indemnify ULA against potential losses that
ULA may incur in the event ULA is unable to obtain certain additional contract pricing from the USAF for four satellite missions. We believe ULA is entitled to additional contract pricing. In December 2008, ULA submitted a claim to the USAF to
re-price the contract value for two of the four satellite missions covered by the indemnification. In March 2009, the USAF issued a denial of that claim and in June 2009, ULA filed an appeal. During 2009, the USAF exercised its option for a third
satellite mission. ULA intends to submit a claim to the USAF in 2010 to re-price the contract value of the third mission. If ULA is unsuccessful obtaining additional pricing, we may be responsible for a portion of the shortfall and may record up to
$382 in pre-tax losses associated with the four missions.       Other Credit Guarantees  We have issued credit guarantees, principally to facilitate
the sale and/or financing of commercial aircraft. Under these arrangements, we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed party in the event that lease or loan payments are not made by the original lessee or debtor or certain specified services
are not performed. A substantial portion of these guarantees has been extended on behalf of original lessees or debtors with less than investment-grade credit. Our commercial aircraft credit-related guarantees are collateralized by the underlying
commercial aircraft and certain other assets. Current outstanding credit guarantees expire within the next 11 years.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

    Residual Value Guarantees  We have issued various residual value guarantees principally to facilitate the sale
and financing of certain commercial aircraft. Under these guarantees, we are obligated to make payments to the guaranteed party if the related aircraft or equipment fair values fall below a specified amount at a future time. These obligations are
collateralized principally by commercial aircraft and expire within the next 9 years.       Other Indemnifications       In conjunction with our sales of the Electron Dynamic Devices, Inc. and Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power businesses and the sale of our Commercial Airplanes facilities
in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma in 2005, we provided indemnifications to the buyers relating to pre-closing environmental contamination and certain other items. The terms of the indemnifications are indefinite. As it is
impossible to assess whether there will be damages in the future or the amounts thereof (if any), we cannot estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments under these guarantees. Therefore, no liability has been recorded.       Industrial Revenue Bonds       Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRBs)
issued by the City of Wichita are used to finance the purchase and/or construction of real and personal property at our Wichita site. Tax benefits associated with IRBs include a ten-year property tax abatement and a sales tax exemption from the
Kansas Department of Revenue. We record the property on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, along with a capital lease obligation to repay the proceeds of the IRB. We have also purchased the IRBs and therefore are the bondholders as
well as the borrower/lessee of the property purchased with the IRB proceeds.      The capital lease obligation and IRB asset are recorded net in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the assets and liabilities associated with the City of Wichita IRBs were $856 and $887.         Note 13   Debt       On March 9, 2009, we filed a public shelf registration with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and common stock. On March 13, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,850, which included $700 bearing an interest rate of 5% due
March 15, 2014, $650 bearing an interest rate of 6% due March 15, 2019 and $500 bearing an interest rate of 6.875% due March 15, 2039. The net proceeds after deducting the discount, underwriting fees and issuance costs were $1,817. On
July 28, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,950, which included $750 bearing an interest rate of 3.5% due February 15, 2015, $750 bearing an interest rate of 4.875% due February 15, 2020 and $450 bearing an interest rate of 5.875% due
February 15, 2040. The net proceeds after deducting the discount, underwriting fees and issuance costs were $1,914. On November 20, 2009, we issued notes totaling $1,200, which included $700 bearing an interest rate of 1.875% due
November 20, 2012, and $500 bearing an interest rate of 3.750% due November 20, 2016. The net proceeds after deducting the discount, underwriting fees and issuance costs were $1,184. We may redeem each series of notes issued in 2009 at any
time prior to maturity, in whole or in part, upon at least 30 days notice, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed plus a make-whole premium, together with accrued interest on such notes to the redemption
date. The notes are unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.      On October 30, 2008, BCC filed a public shelf registration for up to $5,000 of debt securities with the SEC that became effective on November 12, 2008. On October 27, 2009, BCC issued notes totaling
        
   83   

Table of Contents  

$1,000, which included $500 bearing an interest rate of 3.25% due October 27, 2014 and $500 bearing an interest rate of 4.70% due October 27, 2019. The net proceeds after deducting the
discount, underwriting fees and issuance costs were $994. The remaining $4,000 remains available for potential debt issuance. The availability of funding under BCC s shelf registration is dependent on investor demand and market conditions.
     Total debt interest incurred, including amounts capitalized, was $610, $520, and $591 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively. Interest expense recorded by BCC is reflected as a separate line item on our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and is included in earnings from operations. Total Company interest payments were $502, $493, and $616 for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.      We have $3,525 currently available under credit line agreements, of which $2,000 is a
5-year credit facility expiring in November 2012 and $1,525 is a 364-day revolving credit facility expiring in November 2010. Both the 5-year and 364-day credit facilities have a one-year term out option which allows us to extend the maturity of any
borrowings one year beyond the aforementioned expiration dates. We have given BCC exclusive access to $1,500 under these arrangements. We continue to be in full compliance with all covenants contained in our debt or credit facility agreements,
including those at BCC.      Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:       
    At December 31, 2009, $123 of BCC debt was collateralized by portfolio assets and underlying equipment
totaling $209. The debt consists of the 0.87% to 5.79% notes due through 2015.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

   Maturities of long-term debt for the next five years are as follows:       
       Note 14   Postretirement Plans  
     We have various pension plans covering substantially all employees. We fund our major pension plans through trusts. Pension assets are placed in trust
solely for the benefit of the plans  participants, and are structured to maintain liquidity that is sufficient to pay benefit obligations as well as to keep pace over the long term with the growth of obligations for future benefit payments.
     We also have postretirement benefits other than pensions which consist principally of health care coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying
dependents, and to a lesser extent, life insurance to certain groups of retirees. Retiree health care is provided principally until age 65 for approximately half those retirees who are eligible for health care coverage. Certain employee groups,
including employees covered by most United Auto Workers bargaining agreements, are provided lifetime health care coverage.      The funded status of the
plans is measured as the difference between the plan assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). We have recognized the aggregate of all overfunded plans in Pension plan assets, net and the aggregate of all underfunded plans in
either Accrued retiree health care or Accrued pension plan liability, net. The portion of the amount by which the actuarial present value of benefits included in the PBO exceeds the fair value of plan assets, payable in the next 12 months, is
reflected in Other accrued liabilities.      Effective December 31, 2008, a new accounting standard on defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans requires us to measure plan assets and benefit obligations at fiscal year end. We previously performed this measurement at September 30 of each year. Beginning in fourth quarter of 2007 in accordance with this standard, we eliminated the
use of a three-month lag period when recognizing the impact of curtailments or settlements and, instead, recognize these amounts in the period in which they occur. As a result of implementing the measurement date provisions of this standard, we
recorded an additional quarter of pension and other postretirement benefit (OPB) cost as of January 1, 2008 as a $178 decrease to Retained earnings and a $92 decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive loss, which resulted in a net decrease of
$86 to Shareholders  equity. The provisions of this standard do not permit retrospective application.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:       
    A portion of net periodic benefit cost is allocated to production as product costs and may remain in inventory
at the end of each reporting period.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables show changes in the benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of both pensions and OPB.
Benefit obligation balances presented below reflect the PBO for our pension plans, and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) for our OPB plans.       
    Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, are as follows:       
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

   The estimated amount that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost
during the year ended December 31, 2010 is as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all pension plans was $47,549 and $45,218 at December 31,
2009 and 2008. Six of our eight major pension plans have ABOs that exceed plan assets at December 31, 2009. Key information for all plans with ABO in excess of plan assets as of December 31, is as follows:       
    The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reduced our APBO by $497 and $491 at
December 31, 2009 and 2008. These reductions/actuarial gains are amortized over the expected average future service of current employees.       Assumptions        
    The discount rate for each pension plan is determined by discounting the plans  expected future benefit
payments using a yield curve developed from high quality bonds that are rated as Aa or better by Moody s as of the measurement date. The yield curve is fitted to yields developed from bonds at various maturity points. Bonds with the ten percent
highest and the ten percent lowest yields are omitted. A portfolio of about 400 bonds is used to construct the yield curve. Since corporate bond yields are generally not available at maturities beyond 30 years, it is assumed that spot rates will
remain level beyond that 30-year point. The present value of each plan s benefits is calculated by applying the spot/discount rates to projected benefit cash flows. All bonds are U.S. issues, with a minimum outstanding of $50.      The disclosed rate is the average rate for all the plans, weighted by the projected benefit obligation. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average was 5.80%,
and the rates for individual plans ranged from 3.80% to 6.40%. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average was 6.10%, and the rates for individual plans ranged from 4.25% to 6.60%.      The pension fund s expected return on plan assets assumption is derived from a review of actual historical returns achieved by the pension trust and anticipated
future long-term performance of individual asset classes. While consideration is given to recent trust performance and historical returns,
        
   88   

Table of Contents  

the assumption represents a long-term, prospective return. The expected return on plan assets component of the net periodic benefit cost for the upcoming plan year is determined based on the
expected return on plan assets assumption and the market-related value of plan assets (MRVA). Since our adoption of the accounting standard for pensions in 1987, we have determined the MRVA based on a five-year moving average of plan assets. As of
December 31, 2009, the MRVA is approximately $3,700 greater than the fair market value of assets.      Assumed health care cost trend rates as of
December 31, were as follows:       
    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
plans. To determine the health care cost trend rates we look at a combination of information including ongoing claims cost monitoring, annual statistical analyses of claims data, reconciliation of forecast claims against actual claims, review of
trend assumptions of other plan sponsors and national health trends, and adjustments for plan design changes, workforce changes, and changes in plan participant behavior. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would
have the following effect:       

Increase  
      
  Decrease  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  617  
      
  $  
  (541  
  )    
 
    Effect on total of service and interest cost   

57  

(50  
  )    

Plan Assets        Investment Strategy  The overall objective of our pension assets is to earn a rate of return over time to satisfy the benefit obligations of the pension plans and to maintain sufficient liquidity to pay benefits and address other cash
requirements of the pension fund. Specific investment objectives for our long-term investment strategy include reducing the volatility of pension assets relative to pension liabilities, achieving a competitive, total investment return, achieving
diversification between and within asset classes and managing other risks. Investment objectives for each asset class are determined based on specific risks and investment opportunities identified.      We update our long-term, strategic asset allocations every three-to-five years. We use various analytics to determine the optimal asset mix and consider plan
liability characteristics, liquidity characteristics, funding requirements, expected rates of return and the distribution of returns. We identify investment benchmarks for the asset classes in the strategic asset allocation that are market-based and
investable where possible.      Actual allocations to each asset class vary from target allocations due to periodic investment strategy changes, market
value fluctuations, the length of time it takes to fully implement investment allocation positions (such as private equity and real estate), and the timing of benefit payments and contributions. Short term investments and exchange-traded derivatives
are used to rebalance the actual asset allocation to the target asset allocation. The asset allocation is monitored and rebalanced on a monthly basis.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   The actual allocations for the pension assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and target allocations by asset
class, are as follows:       
    Fixed income securities are invested broadly and primarily in long duration instruments. Global equity
securities are invested broadly in U.S. and non-U.S. companies which are in various industries and countries and through a range of market capitalizations.      Real estate and real assets include global private investments and publicly traded investments (such as REITs in the case of real estate). Real estate includes but is not limited to investments in office, retail, apartment and industrial
properties. Real assets include but are not limited to investments in natural resources (such as energy, farmland and timber) and infrastructure. Private equity investment vehicles are primarily limited partnerships (LPs) and fund-of-funds that
mainly invest in U.S. and non-U.S. leveraged buyout, venture capital and special situation strategies.      Global strategies seek to capitalize on
inefficiencies identified across different asset classes or markets, primarily using long-short positions in derivatives and physical securities. Hedge fund strategy types include, but are not limited to event driven, relative value, long-short and
market neutral. A well-diversified number of hedge funds are held.      Investment managers are retained for explicit investment roles specified by
contractual investment guidelines. Certain investment managers are authorized to invest in derivatives, such as equity or bond futures, swaps, options and currency futures or forwards. Derivatives are used to achieve the desired market exposure of a
security or an index, transfer value-added performance between asset classes, achieve the desired currency exposure, adjust portfolio duration or rebalance the total portfolio to the target asset allocation.      As a percentage of total plan assets, derivative net notional amounts were 6.0% and 6.2% for fixed income, including to-be-announced mortgage-backed securities and
treasury forwards, and 0.0% and 7.9% for global equity and currency overlay at December 31, 2009 and 2008.      In November 2009, the Company elected
to contribute $1,500 of our common stock to the pension fund. An independent fiduciary was retained to manage and liquidate the stock over time at its discretion. Plan assets included $1,581 and $0 of our common stock as of December 31, 2009
and 2008.       Risk Management  In managing the plan assets, we review and manage risk associated with funded status risk, interest rate risk, market
risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. Liability management and asset class diversification are central to our risk management approach and are integral to the overall investment strategy. Further, asset classes are
constructed to achieve diversification by investment strategy, by investment manager, by industry or sector and by holding.
        
   90   

Table of Contents  

Investment manager guidelines for publicly traded assets are specified and are monitored regularly through the custodian. Credit parameters for counterparties have been established for managers
permitted to trade over-the-counter derivatives.       Fair Value Measurements  The following table presents our plan assets using the fair value
hierarchy as of December 31, 2009. The fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value. Level 1 refers to fair values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets. Level 2 refers to fair values estimated using significant other observable inputs, and Level 3 includes fair values estimated using significant non-observable inputs.       
    Fixed income securities are primarily valued using a market approach with inputs that include broker quotes,
benchmark yields, base spreads and reported trades.      Cash equivalents and other short-term investments, which are used to pay benefits, are primarily
held in registered money market funds which are valued using a market approach based on the quoted market prices of identical instruments. Other cash equivalent and short-term investments are valued daily by the fund using a market approach with
inputs that include quoted market prices for similar instruments.      Common and preferred stock equity securities are primarily valued using a market
approach based on the quoted market prices of identical instruments. Common/collective/pooled funds are typically common or collective trusts valued at their net asset values (NAVs) that are calculated by the
        
   91   

Table of Contents  

investment manager or sponsor of the fund and have daily or monthly liquidity. Active currency managers, through an overlay program, invest in a broad set of currency derivatives. Derivatives
leveled in the table above are over-the-counter and are primarily valued using an income approach with inputs that include benchmark yields, swap curves, cash flow analysis, rating agency data and interdealer broker rates. Exchange-traded derivative
positions are reported in accordance with changes in daily variation margin which is settled daily and therefore reflected in the payables and receivables portion of the table.      Private equity LP valuations are reported by the fund manager and are based on the valuation of the underlying investments, which include inputs such as cost, operating results, discounted future cash flows and
market based comparable data.      Real estate and real asset fund values are primarily reported by the fund manager and are based on valuation of the
underlying investments, which include inputs such as cost, discounted future cash flows, independent appraisals and market based comparable data. Publically traded REITs are valued using a market approach based on quoted market prices of identical
instruments.      Global strategies are primarily limited liability company (LLC) or mutual fund structures. The LLCs are primarily valued based on NAVs
calculated by the fund and have monthly liquidity. Global strategies mutual funds are valued using a market approach based on the quoted market prices of identical instruments.      Hedge funds consist of fund-of-fund LLC or commingled fund structures. The LLCs are primarily valued based on NAVs calculated by the fund and are not publicly available. Liquidity for the LLCs is monthly and is
subject to liquidity of the underlying funds. The commingled fund NAV is calculated by the manager on a daily basis and has monthly liquidity.      Some of
our assets, primarily our private equity, real estate and real assets, hedge funds and global strategies, do not have readily determinable market values given the specific investment structures involved and the nature of the underlying investments.
For the December 31, 2009 plan asset reporting, publicly traded asset pricing was used where possible. For assets without readily determinable values, estimates were derived from investment manager discussions focusing on underlying
fundamentals and significant events. For those investments reported on a one-quarter lagged basis (primarily LPs) we use net asset values, adjusted for subsequent cash flows and significant events.      The following table presents a reconciliation of Level 3 assets held during the year ended December 31, 2009.       
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

    OPB Plan Assets  The majority of OPB plan assets are invested in a balanced index fund which is comprised of
approximately 60% equities and 40% debt securities. The index fund is valued using a market approach based on the quoted market price of an identical instrument (Level 1). The expected rate of return on these assets does not have a material effect
on the net periodic benefit cost.       Cash Flows        Contributions  Required pension contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) as well as rules governing funding of our non-U.S. pension plans, are not expected to be material in 2010. In 2010 required
contributions to our pension plans are not expected to exceed $100. We expect that if interest rates remain at their current levels, discount rates for ERISA determinations will likely decline in future years because of retrospective averaging, and
as a result, contributions in future years are expected to increase. We expect to contribute approximately $14 to our OPB plans in 2010.       Estimated
Future Benefit Payments  The table below reflects the total pension benefits expected to be paid from the plans or from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants  share of the cost, which is funded by
participant contributions. OPB payments reflect our portion only.       
     Termination Provisions       Certain of the pension plans provide that, in the event there is a change in control of the Company which is not approved by the Board of Directors and the plans are terminated within five years thereafter, the
assets in the plan first will be used to provide the level of retirement benefits required by ERISA, and then any surplus will be used to fund a trust to continue present and future payments under the postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits in our group insurance benefit programs.      We have an agreement with the U.S. government with respect to certain pension plans. Under the
agreement, should we terminate any of the plans under conditions in which the plan s assets exceed that plan s obligations, the U.S. government will be entitled to a fair allocation of any of the plan s assets based on plan
contributions that were reimbursed under U.S. government contracts.       401(k) Plans       We provide certain defined contribution plans to all eligible employees. The principal plans are the Company-sponsored 401(k) plans. The expense for these defined contribution plans was $591, $571 and $536 in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

      Note 15   Share-Based Compensation and Other Compensation Arrangements
       Share-Based Compensation       Our 2003 Incentive
Stock Plan, as amended on April 27, 2009, permits awards of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock units, Performance Shares, performance units and other incentives to our employees, officers, consultants
and independent contractors. The aggregate number of shares of our stock available for issuance under the amended plan will not exceed 80,000,000 and no more than an aggregate of 16,000,000 shares are available for issuance as restricted stock
awards.      Shares issued as a result of stock option exercises or conversion of stock unit awards will be funded out of treasury shares except to the
extent there are insufficient treasury shares in which case new shares will be issued. We believe we currently have adequate treasury shares to meet any requirements to issue shares during 2010.      Share-based plans expense is primarily included in general and administrative expense since it is incentive compensation issued primarily to our executives. The
share-based plans expense and related income tax benefit follow:       
     Stock Options       Options have been granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant and expire ten years after the date of grant. For stock options issued prior to 2006, vesting is generally over a five-year
service period with portions of a grant becoming exercisable at one year, three years and five years after the date of grant. In the event an employee has a termination of employment due to retirement, layoff, disability or death, the employee (or
beneficiary) immediately vests in grants that have been outstanding for at least one year.      On February 23, 2009, February 25, 2008, and
February 26, 2007, we granted to our executives 7,423,242, 6,411,300, and 5,334,700 options, respectively, with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The stock options vest over a period of three
years, with 34% vesting after the first year, 33% vesting after the second year and the remaining 33% vesting after the third year. The options expire 10 years after the date of grant. If an executive terminates employment for any reason, the
non-vested portion of the stock option will not vest and all rights to the non-vested portion will terminate completely.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

   Stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows:       
    The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $2, $22, and $192 during the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash received from options exercised for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $10, $44, and $209 with a related tax benefit of $1, $6, and $65, respectively, derived from the compensation
deductions resulting from these option exercises. At December 31, 2009, there was $98 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to the Stock Option plan which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years. The
total fair value of stock options vested during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $114, $82, and $43, respectively.      The fair
values of options were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:       
    The expected volatility of the stock options is based on a combination of our historical stock volatility and
the volatility levels implied on the grant date by actively traded option contracts on our common stock. We determined the expected term of the stock option grants to be 6 years, calculated using the  simplified  method in accordance with
the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 107,  Valuation of Share-Based Payment Arrangements for Public Companies . We used the  simplified  method since we changed the vesting terms, tax treatment and the recipients of our stock options
beginning in 2006 such that we believe our historical data no longer provides a reasonable basis upon which to estimate expected term.       Restricted
Stock Units and Other Awards       In 2009, we modified the components of our long-term incentive program while maintaining substantially the same total
award value as in prior years. Prior to the modification, Performance Awards and options each comprised 50% of the total award value. Beginning in 2009, Performance Awards still represent 50% of the value and stock options and restricted stock units
(RSUs) each represent 25% of the total value.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

   On February 23, 2009, we granted to our executives 2,144,501 RSUs as part of our long-term incentive program,
with a fair value of $35.57 per share. The RSUs vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. If an executive terminates employment because of retirement, involuntary layoff, disability, or death, the employee (or beneficiary) will immediately
vest on a proration of stock units based on active employment during the three-year performance period. In all other cases, the RSUs will not vest and all rights to the stock units will terminate completely.      In addition to RSUs awarded under our long-term incentive program, we grant restricted stock to employees for various achievements, referred to as other stock award
units. The fair values of all stock units are estimated using the average stock price on the date of grant. Stock units settle in common stock on a one-for-one basis and are not contingent upon stock price.      Stock unit activity for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows:       
     ShareValue Trust       The ShareValue Trust, established effective July 1, 1996, is a 14-year irrevocable trust that holds our common stock, receives dividends, and distributes to employees the appreciation in value above a 3% per annum threshold rate
of return at the end of each period. The total compensation expense to be recognized over the life of the trust was determined using a binomial option-pricing model.      The ShareValue Trust is accounted for as a contra-equity account and stated at market value. Market value adjustments are offset to Additional paid-in capital. At December 31, 2009, there was $36 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to the ShareValue Trust which is expected to be recognized during the six months ending June 30, 2010.      The
Trust was split between two funds,  fund 1  and  fund 2 , upon its initial funding. Based on the average stock price of $66.15 as of June 30, 2008, the market value of fund 2 exceeded the threshold of $1,028 by $236. This
excess was paid in Boeing common stock, except for partial shares and distributions to non-U.S. employees and beneficiaries of deceased participants, which was paid in cash.      At December 31, 2009 the Trust held 29,563,324 shares, of which 13,216,726 shares were included in fund 1. If on June 30, 2010, the market value of fund 1 exceeds the appreciation threshold stock price,
the amount in excess of the threshold will be distributed to employees in shares of common stock. At December 31, 2009 the threshold price was $85.46 per share. The Trust will terminate in 2010, and any undistributed shares will be transferred
to us upon termination.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Shares       Prior to 2006, Performance Shares were a significant component of our long-term incentive compensation. Performance Shares are stock units that are convertible to common stock, on a one-to-one basis, contingent upon stock price performance.
If, at any time up to five years after award, the stock price reaches and maintains for 20 consecutive days a price equal to stated price growth targets, a stated percentage (up to 125%) of the Performance Shares awarded are vested and convertible
to common stock.      Performance Shares activity for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows:       

(Shares in thousands)   
      
  Shares  

Number of Performance Shares:   

Outstanding at beginning of year   
      
  747  

Dividend   
      
  29  

Forfeited   
      
  (4  
  )    
 
    Outstanding at end of year   
      
  772  

Outstanding at end of year not contingent on future employment   
      
  439  

The following table provides additional information regarding potentially convertible and converted or deferred
Performance Shares.       
    Performance Shares granted in 2005 were measured on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model. For years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded $0, $0 and $54, respectively, to accelerate the amortization of compensation cost for those Performance Shares converted to common stock or deferred as stock or cash at the employees 
election.      Additionally, certain Performance Shares that have a cash settlement, are re-measured each balance sheet date using a Monte Carlo model and
are recalculated as a liability. Liability awards vesting and transferred into deferred compensation plans totaled $0, $0 and $48 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Other Compensation Arrangements        Performance Awards  
     Performance Awards are cash units that payout based on the achievement of long-term financial goals at the end of a three-year period. Each unit has an
initial value of $100 dollars. The amount payable at the end of the three-year performance period may be anywhere from $0 to $200 dollars per unit, depending on the Company s performance against plan for a three-year period. The Compensation
Committee has the discretion to pay these awards in cash, stock, or a combination of both after the three-year performance period. Compensation expense, based on the estimated performance payout, is recognized ratably over the performance period.
     During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we granted Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the achievement of financial goals for the
three-year periods ending December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The minimum payout amount is $0 and the maximum amount we could be required to pay out for the 2009, 2008 and 2007 Performance Awards is $304, $289 and $47.   
     
   97   

Table of Contents  

   During the first quarter of 2006, we granted Performance Awards to our executives with the payout based on the
achievement of financial goals for the three-year period ending December 31, 2008. The payout for these awards of $137 occurred in the first quarter of 2009.       Deferred Compensation       The Company has a deferred compensation plan which permits executives to defer receipt
of a portion of their salary, bonus, and certain other incentive awards. Prior to May 1, 2006, employees who participated in the deferred compensation plan could choose to defer in either an interest earning account or a Boeing stock unit
account. Effective May 1, 2006, participants can diversify deferred compensation among 19 investment funds including the interest earning account and the Boeing stock unit account.      Total expense/(income) related to deferred compensation was $158, ($223), and $51 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Additionally, for employees who elected to defer their compensation in stock units prior to
January 1, 2006, the Company matched 25% of the deferral with additional stock units. Effective January 1, 2006, all matching contributions are settled in stock upon retirement. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the deferred
compensation liability which is being marked to market was $1,143 and $1,074.         Note 16   Shareholders  Equity  
     On October 29, 2007, the Board approved the repurchase of up to $7 billion of common stock (the Program). Unless terminated earlier by a Board
resolution, the Program will expire when we have used all authorized funds for repurchase. At December 31, 2009, $3,610 in shares may still be purchased under the Program.      As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were 1,200,000,000 common shared authorized. Twenty million shares of authorized preferred stock remain unissued.       Changes in Share Balances       The following table shows changes in
each class of shares:       
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss       The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, were as follows:       
       Note 17   Derivative Financial Instruments        Cash Flow Hedges       Our cash flow hedges include certain interest
rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts and commodity purchase contracts. Interest rate swap contracts under which we agree to pay fixed rates of interest are designated as cash flow hedges of variable-rate
debt obligations. We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to manage currency risk associated with certain forecasted transactions, specifically forecasted sales and purchases made in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency derivative
contracts hedge forecasted transactions principally occurring within five years in the future, with certain contracts hedging transactions up to 2021. We use commodity derivatives, such as fixed-price purchase commitments, to hedge against
potentially unfavorable price changes for items used in production. These include commitments to purchase electricity at fixed prices through 2015.       Fair Value Hedges       Interest rate swaps under which we agree to pay variable rates of interest are designated as fair value hedges of
fixed-rate debt. The net change in fair value of the derivatives and the hedged items is reported in Boeing Capital Corporation interest expense. Ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swaps was insignificant for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008.       Derivative Instruments Not Receiving Hedge Accounting Treatment       We also hold certain derivative instruments, primarily foreign currency forward contracts, for risk management purposes but without electing any form of hedge
accounting.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

    Notional Amounts and Fair Values       The fair values of derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The notional amounts and fair values as of December 31, were as follows:       

1     
     
    Notional amounts represent the gross contract/notional amount of the derivatives outstanding.         The effects of our cash flow hedges on Accumulated other comprehensive loss during the year ended December 31, 2009 were as follows:       

2009   
     
  Location gains/(losses) are recognized   
 
    Effective portion recognized in other comprehensive income, net of taxes    

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
   $   
   180   
     
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss   

Commodity contracts   

(24)   
     
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss   
    For the year ended December 31, 2009, we reclassified a net loss of $16 (pre-tax) from Accumulated other
comprehensive loss to earnings. Based on our portfolio of cash flow hedges, we expect to reclassify gains of $36 (pre-tax) during the next 12 months.      We have derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features. For foreign exchange contracts with original maturities of at least five years, our derivative counterparties could require settlement if we default on our 5-year
credit facility, expiring November 2012. For commodity contracts, our counterparties could require collateral posted in an amount determined by our credit ratings. The fair value of foreign exchange and commodity contracts that have
credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a liability position at December 31, 2009 is $88. At December 31, 2009, there were no aggregate derivative positions requiring the posting of collateral.         
   100   

Table of Contents  

      Note 18   Significant Group Concentrations of Risk        Credit Risk       Financial instruments involving potential credit
risk are predominantly with commercial aircraft customers and the U.S. government. Of the $11,962 in Gross Accounts receivable and Gross Customer financing included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2009,
$6,154 related to commercial aircraft customers ($462 of Accounts receivable and $5,692 of Customer financing) and $3,119 related to the U.S. government. Of the $6,136 in Gross Customer financing, $5,568 related to customers we believe have less
than investment-grade credit. AirTran Airways, American Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines and Continental Airlines were associated with 25%, 15%, 7% and 7%, respectively, of our financing portfolio. Financing for aircraft is collateralized by security in
the related asset. As of December 31, 2009, there was $10,409 of financing commitments related to aircraft on order including options and proposed as part of sales campaigns described in Note 11, of which $9,266 related to customers we believe
have less than investment-grade credit.       Fixed-Price Development Programs       Fixed-price development work is inherently uncertain and subject to significant variability in estimates of the cost and time required to complete the work. Significant BDS fixed-price development contracts include
AEW C, International KC-767 Tankers and commercial and military satellites. Significant Commercial Airplanes development programs include the 787 and 747-8. The operational and technical complexities of these programs create financial risk,
which could trigger termination provisions, order cancellations or other financially significant exposure. Changes to cost and revenue estimates could also result in lower margins or a material charge if the program has or is determined to have a
reach-forward loss.       Other Risk       As of
December 31, 2009, approximately 37% of our total workforce was represented by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 3% of our total workforce was represented by agreements expiring during 2010.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

      Note 19   Fair Value Measurements       The following tables present our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy. The
fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value. Level 1 refers to fair values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. Level 2 refers to fair values
estimated using significant other observable inputs and Level 3 includes fair values estimated using significant non-observable inputs.       
     
    Money market funds and equity securities are valued using a market approach based on the quoted market prices
of identical instruments. Residential mortgage-backed securities are valued using an income approach based on prepayment speeds, yields, discount margin and collateral performance. The other debt securities are primarily valued using a market
approach based on benchmark yields, reported trades and broker/dealer quotes.      Derivatives include foreign currency, commodity, interest rate contracts
and warrants. Our foreign currency forward contracts are valued using an income approach based on the present value of the forward rate less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount. Commodity derivatives are valued
        
   102   

Table of Contents  

using an income approach based on the present value of the commodity index prices less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is derived
from a discounted cash flow analysis based on the terms of the contract and the interest rate curve. The fair value of warrants is based on a third-party options model and principal inputs of stock price, volatility and time to expiry.   
  The following table presents our assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for the years ended December 31:       
     Fair Value Disclosures       The following table presents our assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying values and estimated fair values were as follows at December 31:       
    The fair values of the Accounts receivable and Accounts payable are based on current market rates for loans of
the same risk and maturities. The fair values of our variable rate notes receivable that reprice frequently approximate their carrying values. The fair values of fixed rate notes receivable are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis using
interest rates currently offered on loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality. The fair value of our debt is based on current market yields for our debt traded in the secondary market. The fair values of the residual value
guarantees and contingent repurchase commitments are determined using a Black Futures Options formula and includes such assumptions as the expected value of the aircraft on the settlement date, volatility of aircraft prices, time until settlement
and the risk free discount rate. The fair value of the credit guarantees is estimated based on the expected cash flows of those commitments, given the creditor s probability of default, and discounted using the risk free rate. With regard to
financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of future financing commitments because the amount and timing of funding those commitments are uncertain.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

      Note 20   Legal Proceedings       Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts and other matters are pending against us. Potentially material contingencies are
discussed below.      We are subject to various U.S. government investigations, from which civil, criminal or administrative proceedings could result or
have resulted. Such proceedings involve, or could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges, based on the results of investigations. We believe, based upon current information, that the outcome of any such government
disputes and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, except as set forth below.       A-12 Litigation       In 1991, the U.S. Navy notified McDonnell Douglas Corporation (now merged into The Boeing Company) and General Dynamics
Corporation (together, the Team) that it was terminating for default the Team s contract for development and initial production of the A-12 aircraft. The Team had full responsibility for performance of the contract and both contractors are
jointly and severally liable for any potential liabilities resulting from the termination. The Team filed a legal action to contest the Navy s default termination, to assert its rights to convert the termination to one for  the convenience
of the government,  and to obtain payment for work done and costs incurred on the A-12 contract but not paid to date. As of December 31, 2009, inventories included approximately $585 of recorded costs on the A-12 contract, against which we
have established a loss provision of $350. The amount of the provision, which was established in 1990, was based on McDonnell Douglas Corporation s belief, supported by an opinion of outside counsel, that the termination for default would be
converted to a termination for convenience, and that the best estimate of possible loss on termination for convenience was $350.      On August 31,
2001, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision after trial upholding the government s default termination of the A-12 contract. In 2003, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, finding that the trial court had applied the wrong
legal standard, vacated the trial court s 2001 decision and ordered the case sent back to that court for further proceedings. On May 3, 2007, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a decision upholding the government s default
termination of the A-12 contract. We filed a Notice of Appeal on May 4, 2007 with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On June 2, 2009, the Court of Appeals rendered an opinion affirming the trial court s 2007 decision
sustaining the government s default termination. On August 14, 2009, we filed a Combined Petition for Panel Rehearing and for Rehearing En Banc in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On November 24, 2009, the Court denied
our Combined Petition. We believe that the ruling of the Court of Appeals upholding the default termination is erroneous and in conflict with the governing law, and we intend to file a Petition for Writ of Certiorari to the United States Supreme
Court on or before March 24, 2010. On December 29, 2009, the Department of the Navy sent letters to the Team requesting payment of $1,352 in unliquidated progress payments, plus applicable interest. We believe that the U.S. government is
not entitled to repayment of any progress payments at this time and have advised the Department of the Navy of our position.      We believe that the
termination for default is contrary to law and fact and that the loss provision established by McDonnell Douglas Corporation in 1990, which was supported by an opinion from outside counsel, continues to provide adequately for the reasonably possible
reduction in value of A-12 net contracts in process as of December 31, 2009. Final resolution of the A-12 litigation will depend on the outcome of further proceedings or possible negotiations with the U.S. government. We expect the United
States Supreme Court to decide whether or not to review the Court of Appeals  decision in
        
   104   

Table of Contents  

2010, and if it decides to review the case, to issue a decision in 2010 or 2011. If the United States Supreme Court declines review of the Court of Appeals  decision, or if it reviews the
decision and determines, contrary to our belief, that a termination for default was appropriate, we could incur an additional loss of up to $275, consisting principally of $235 of remaining inventory costs. If the courts further hold that a money
judgment should be entered against the Team, we could be required to pay the U.S. government up to one-half of the unliquidated progress payments of $1,350 plus statutory interest from February 1991 (currently totaling up to $1,485). In that event,
our loss would total approximately $1,690 in pre-tax charges. Should, however, the March 31, 1998 judgment of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in favor of the Team be reinstated, we could be entitled to receive payment of approximately $1,144,
including interest from June 26, 1991.       Employment and Benefits Litigation       On March 2, 2006, we were served with a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas, alleging that hiring decisions made by Spirit AeroSystems, Inc. (Spirit) near the time of our sale
of the Wichita facility were tainted by age discrimination, violated Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), violated our collective bargaining agreements, and constituted retaliation. The case is brought as a class action on behalf of
individuals not hired by Spirit. While we believe that Spirit has an obligation to indemnify Boeing for claims relating to the 2005 sales transaction, Spirit has refused to indemnify Boeing for all claims arising from employment activity prior to
January 1, 2005. On June 4, 2008, claims by individuals who filed consents to join the Age Discrimination Employment Act collective action and were terminated by Boeing prior to January 1, 2005 were dismissed by stipulated order.
On June 15, 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking class certification for certain former Boeing employees at the Wichita, Tulsa and McAlester facilities over the age of 40 who were laid off between January 1, 2005 and July 1, 2005,
and were not hired by Spirit on June 17, 2005. On July 31, 2009, Boeing filed motions opposing class certification and seeking dismissal of the ERISA and breach of contract claims. On August 14, 2009, Boeing filed a motion seeking
dismissal, or in the alternative, decertification of the age claims. Plaintiffs  reply brief on certification of ERISA  510 and Labor-Management Relations Act (LMRA)  301 classes was filed on August 28, 2009. Plaintiffs 
response to Defendants  motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs  ERISA  510 and LMRA  301 claims was filed on September 11, 2009. These motions are fully briefed and are pending before the court.      A second alleged class action involving our sale of the Wichita facility to Spirit was filed on February 21, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Kansas. The case is also brought under ERISA, and, in general, claims that we have not properly provided benefits to certain categories of former employees affected by the sale .  On May 22, 2008, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint
and on June 3, 2008, filed a motion to certify a class. On July 14, 2008, the court granted class certification for the purpose of adjudicating liability for the class of employees who went to work for Spirit, and deferred class
certification motions for the class of employees who did not go to work for Spirit. A Memorandum and Order on November 3, 2009 resolves discovery disputes and discovery continues for both groups of employees.      On September 13, 2006, two UAW Local 1069 retirees filed a class action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee alleging that recently announced changes to medical plans for retirees of UAW Local 1069 constituted a breach of collective bargaining agreements under  301 of the LMRA and  502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA. On September 15,
2006, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the International UAW and two retiree medical plan participants seeking a declaratory judgment confirming that we have the legal right to make changes
to these medical benefits. On June 4, 2007, the Middle District of Tennessee ordered that its case be transferred to the Northern District of Illinois. The two cases were consolidated on September 24, 2007. On January 17, 2008, the
court granted the UAW s motion to amend the complaint to drop the retirees  claim for vested lifetime benefits based on successive collective bargaining agreements and
        
   105   

Table of Contents  

instead allege that the current collective bargaining agreement is the sole alleged source of rights to retiree medical benefits. Both parties filed Motions for Class Certification on
November 16, 2007 and filed briefs on class certification on February 28, 2008. The parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment on May 27, 2008. On September 30, 2008, the court certified a class of retirees for all claims.
On September 9, 2009, the court granted Boeing s motion and ruled that the retiree medical benefits were not vested lifetime benefits and that the 2006 changes to benefits did not violate the 2005 collective bargaining agreement. On
October 8, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals.      On October 13, 2006, we were named as a
defendant in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Illinois. Plaintiffs, seeking to represent a class of similarly situated participants and beneficiaries in the Boeing Company Voluntary Investment Plan (the VIP
Plan), alleged that fees and expenses incurred by the VIP Plan were and are unreasonable and excessive, not incurred solely for the benefit of the VIP Plan and its participants, and were undisclosed to participants. The plaintiffs further alleged
that defendants breached their fiduciary duties in violation of  502(a)(2) of ERISA, and sought injunctive and equitable relief pursuant to  502(a)(3) of ERISA. Plaintiffs filed a motion to certify the class, which we opposed. On
December 14, 2007, the court granted plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint, which complaint added our Employee Benefits Investment Committee as a defendant and included new allegations regarding alleged breach of fiduciary duty. The
stay of proceedings entered by the court on September 10, 2007, pending resolution by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of  Lively v. Dynegy, Inc. , was lifted on April 3, 2008, after notification that the
 Lively  case had settled. On April 16, 2008, plaintiffs sought leave to file a second amended complaint, which we opposed, which would add investment performance allegations. On August 22, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs leave to
file their second amended complaint. On September 29, 2008, the court granted plaintiffs  motion to certify the class of current, past and future participants or beneficiaries in the VIP Plan. On September 9, 2008, we filed a motion
for summary judgment to dismiss claims arising prior to September 27, 2000 based on the ERISA statute of limitations. On October 14, 2008, we filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the Seventh Circuit Court
of Appeals. On January 15, 2009, we filed a motion seeking dismissal of all claims as a matter of law. On August 10, 2009, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals granted Boeing s motion for leave to appeal the class certification order.
The district court entered a stay of proceedings in the trial court pending resolution of the class certification appeal. On December 29, 2009, the district court lifted on plaintiffs  motion the stay of proceedings previously entered.
Boeing responded by filing an Application for Stay Pending Appeal with the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals on January 7, 2010.       BSSI/ICO
Litigation       On August 16, 2004, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc. (BSSI) filed a complaint for
declaratory relief against ICO Global Communications (Operations), Ltd. (ICO) in Los Angeles County Superior Court seeking a declaration that ICO s prior termination of two contracts for convenience extinguished all claims between the
parties. On September 16, 2004, ICO filed a cross - complaint alleging breach of contract, economic duress, fraud, unfair competition, and other claims. ICO added The Boeing Company as a defendant in October 2005 to some of these claims
and also sued it for interference with contract and misappropriation of trade secrets. On January 13, 2006, BSSI filed a cross-complaint against ICO, ICO Global Communications (Holdings) Limited (ICO Holdings), ICO s parent, and Eagle
River Investments, LLC, parent of both ICO and ICO Holdings, alleging fraud and other claims. The trial commenced on June 19, 2008, with ICO seeking to recover approximately $2,000 in damages, including all monies paid to BSSI and Boeing Launch
Services, plus punitive damages and other unspecified damages and relief.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

   On October 21, 2008, the jury returned a verdict awarding ICO compensatory damages of $371 plus interest, based
upon findings of contract breach, fraud and interference with contract. On October 31, 2008, the jury awarded ICO punitive damages of $236. On January 2, 2009, the court entered judgment for ICO in the amount of $631 which included $24 in
prejudgment interest.      On February 26, 2009 the trial court granted in part and denied in part post-trial motions we filed seeking to set aside the
verdict. As a result, on March 3, 2009, the court entered an amended judgment for ICO in the amount of $604, which included $371 in compensatory damages, $207 in punitive damages and $26 in prejudgment interest. Post-judgment interest will
accrue on the judgment at the rate of 10% per year (simple interest) from January 2, 2009. We filed a notice of appeal and ICO filed a notice of cross-appeal in March 2009. Our opening brief for the appeal was filed on October 27,
2009. No date has been set for argument. We believe that we have substantial arguments on appeal, which we intend to pursue vigorously.       BSSI/Telesat
Canada       On November 9, 2006, Telesat Canada (Telesat) and a group of its insurers served BSSI with an arbitration demand alleging breach of
contract, gross negligence and willful misconduct in connection with the constructive total loss of Anik F1, a model 702 satellite manufactured by BSSI. Telesat and its insurers initially sought over $385 in damages and $10 in lost profits, but
recently revised their demand to $263. BSSI has asserted a counterclaim against Telesat for $6 in unpaid performance incentive payments and also a $180 contingent counterclaim on the theory that any ultimate award to reimburse the insurers for their
payments to Telesat could only result from Telesat s breach of its contractual obligation to obtain a full waiver of subrogation rights barring recourse against BSSI. We believe that the claims asserted by Telesat and its insurers lack merit,
but we have notified our insurance carriers of the demand. The arbitration has been stayed pending an application by Telesat to the Ontario Superior Court on a preliminary issue. The arbitration hearing date has been vacated.      On April 26, 2007, a group of our insurers filed a declaratory judgment action in the Circuit Court of Cook County asserting certain defenses to coverage and
requesting a declaration of their obligation under our insurance and reinsurance policies relating to the Telesat Anik F1 arbitration. On June 12, 2008, the court granted the insurers  motion for summary judgment, concluding that our
insurance policy excluded the kinds of losses alleged by Telesat. On January 16, 2009, the court granted Boeing s motion for reconsideration, ruling in favor of Boeing to require the insurers to provide insurance coverage to defend the
claim.       Civil Securities Litigation       Plaintiff
shareholders have filed a putative securities fraud class action against The Boeing Company and two of our senior executives. This lawsuit arises from our June 2009 announcement that the first flight of the 787 Dreamliner would be postponed due to a
need to reinforce an area within the side-of-body section of the aircraft. Plaintiffs contend that we were aware before June 2009 that the first flight could not take place as scheduled due to issues with the side-of-body section of the aircraft,
and that our determination not to announce this delay earlier resulted in an artificial inflation of our stock price for a multi-week period in May and June 2009. Plaintiffs  complaint was filed in November 2009. No briefing or discovery has
yet taken place. We believe the allegations are without merit and intend to contest the case vigorously.      In addition, plaintiff shareholders have filed
three similar shareholder derivative lawsuits concerning the flight schedule for the 787 Dreamliner that closely tracks the allegations in the putative class action lawsuit. No briefing or discovery has yet taken place. We believe the allegations
are without merit and intend to contest the case vigorously.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

      Note 21   Segment Information       We operate in five principal segments: Commercial Airplanes; Boeing Military Aircraft, Network   Space Systems, and Global
Services   Support, collectively BDS; and BCC. All other activities fall within the Other segment, principally made up of Engineering, Operations   Technology and our Shared Services Group. See page 45 for Summary of Business
Segment Data, which is an integral part of this note.      Our Commercial Airplanes operation principally involves development, production and marketing of
commercial jet aircraft and providing related support services, principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide.      BDS combines weapons and
aircraft capabilities, intelligence and security systems, communications architectures and extensive large-scale integration expertise. Our BDS operations principally involve research, development, production, modification and support of the
following products and related systems: global strike systems, including fighters, bombers, weapons and unmanned systems, global mobility systems, including transport and tanker aircraft, rotorcraft systems, including transport, combat and
tilt-rotor aircraft, airborne surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, including command and control, battle management, and airborne anti-submarine aircraft, network and tactical systems, including information and battle management systems,
intelligence and security systems, missile defense systems, space and intelligence systems, including satellites and commercial satellite launching vehicles, and space exploration. BDS support and services deliver a full continuum of innovative
products and services that help customers use the systems needed to execute their missions while reducing life-cycle costs. Although some BDS products are contracted in the commercial environment, the primary customer is the U.S. government.
     Our Boeing Military Aircraft segment programs include AH-64 Apache, Airborne Early Warning and Control, CH-47 Chinook, C-17 Globemaster, EA-18G Growler
Airborne Attack Electronic Aircraft, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15 Strike Eagle, F-22 Raptor, Harpoon, International KC-767 Tanker, Joint Direct Attack Munition, P-8A Poseidon, Small Diameter Bomb, T-45 TS Goshawk and V-22 Osprey.      Our Network   Space Systems segment programs include Airborne Laser, Family of Advanced Beyond Line-of-Sight Terminals, Brigade Combat Team Modernization
(formerly Future Combat Systems), Future Rapid Effects System, Global Positioning System, Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), International Space Station, Joint Tactical Radio System, Satellite Systems, SBInet, Space Payloads and Space Shuttle.
     Our Global Services   Support segment programs include Integrated Logistics on platforms including AH-64, AV-8B, C-17, CH-47, F-15, F/A-18,
F-22, GMD, 767 Tanker and V-22; Maintenance, Modifications and Upgrades on platforms including A-10, B-1, B-52, C-32, C-40, C-130, E-4B, E-6, KC-10, KC-135, T-38 and VC-25; Training Systems and Services on platforms including AH-64, C-17, F-15,
F-16, F/A-18 and T-45; and International Support and Advanced Global Services and Support.      Our BCC segment is primarily engaged in supporting our major
operating units by facilitating, arranging, structuring and providing selective financing solutions to our customers and managing our overall financial exposures.      Engineering, Operations   Technology is an advanced research and development organization focused on innovative technologies, improved processes and the creation of new products. Financing activities other
than BCC, consisting principally of intercompany guarantees we provide to BCC, are included within the Other segment classification.         
   108   

Table of Contents  

   Effective January 1, 2009, 2008 and 2007 certain programs were realigned among BDS segments. In addition,
effective January 1, 2008, certain environmental remediation contracts (formerly included in Network   Space Systems) were transferred to the Other Segment. Certain intercompany items were also realigned between the Other Segment and
Unallocated items and eliminations in 2008. Business segment data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the realignment.      While our
principal operations are in the United States, Canada and Australia, some key suppliers and subcontractors are located in Europe and Japan. Revenues by geographic area consisted of the following:       
    Commercial Airplanes segment revenues were approximately 86%, 70% and 79% of total revenues in Europe and
approximately 70%, 75% and 87% of total revenues in Asia, excluding China, for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. BDS revenues were approximately 12%, 20% and 16% of total revenues in Europe and approximately 29%, 24% and 12% of total revenues in
Asia, excluding China, for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. BDS revenues from the U.S. government represented 43%, 46% and 42% of consolidated revenues for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 5% and 4% of operating assets were located
outside the United States as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.      The information in the following tables is derived directly from the segments 
internal financial reporting used for corporate management purposes.       Research and Development Expense*        

109   

Table of Contents  

    Depreciation and Amortization        

    We recorded earnings from operations associated with our cost and
equity method investments of $74, $47, and $100 in our Commercial Airplanes segment and $175, $194, and $87 primarily in our N SS segment for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      For segment reporting purposes, we record Commercial Airplanes segment revenues and cost of sales for airplanes transferred to other segments. Such transfers may
include airplanes accounted for as operating leases and considered transferred to the BCC segment and airplanes transferred to the BDS segment for further modification prior to delivery to the customer. The revenues and cost of sales for these
transfers are eliminated in the Unallocated items and eliminations caption. For segment reporting purposes, we record BDS revenues and cost of sales for the modification performed on airplanes received from Commercial Airplanes when the airplane is
delivered to the customer or at the attainment of performance milestones.      Intersegment revenues, eliminated in Unallocated items and eliminations are
shown in the following table.       
     Unallocated Items and Eliminations       Unallocated items and eliminations includes costs not attributable to business segments as well as intercompany profit eliminations. This includes Unallocated pension
and other postretirement expense which represents the difference between costs recognized under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (GAAP) in the consolidated financial statements and federal cost accounting
standards required to be utilized by our business segments for U.S. government contracting purposes.         
   110   

Table of Contents  

   The most significant items not allocated to segments are shown in the following table.       
    Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash and investments, prepaid pension expense, net deferred tax assets, capitalized interest
and assets held by our Shared Services Group as well as intercompany eliminations. Unallocated liabilities include various accrued employee compensation and benefit liabilities, including accrued retiree health care, net deferred tax liabilities and
income taxes payable. Debentures and notes payable are not allocated to other business segments except for the portion related to BCC. Unallocated capital expenditures relate primarily to Shared Services Group assets and segment assets managed by
Shared Services Group, primarily BDS.      Segment assets, liabilities and capital expenditures are summarized in the tables below.       Assets        
     Liabilities        
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Expenditures        
       Note 22   Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)        
    During the first and third quarters of 2009, we recorded pre-tax charges of $347 and $1,005 on our 747 program
in our Commercial Airplanes segment. During the third quarter of 2009, we recorded $2,619 of research and development costs relating to the first three 787 flight test aircraft in our Commercial Airplanes segment. During the fourth quarter of 2009,
we recorded pre-tax charges of $133 on our international AEW C program in our Boeing Military Aircraft segment.      During the second quarter of 2008,
we recorded a pre-tax charge of $248 on our international AEW C program in our Boeing Military Aircraft segment. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $685 on our 747 program in our Commercial Airplanes segment.
During the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the IAM strike reduced revenue by approximately $6.4 billion.         
   112   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company
     Chicago, Illinois      We have audited the accompanying
consolidated statements of financial position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. The financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 8, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.      / S /
D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP          Chicago, Illinois      February 8, 2010       
  
   113   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Boeing Company
     Chicago, Illinois      We have audited the internal control
over financial reporting of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control
over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31,
2009 of the Company and our report dated February 8, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.      / S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP      Chicago, Illinois      February 8, 2010         
   114   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure       None.         Item 9A. Controls and Procedures        

(a)  
     
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.        Our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009 and have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.       

(b)  
     
  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.        Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation under the framework in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.      Our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Item 8 of
this report and is incorporated by reference herein.       

(c)  
     
  Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting.        There were
no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2009 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.         Item 9B. Other Information       None
        
   115   

Table of Contents  

    PART III          Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       Our executive
officers as of February 1, 2010, are as follows:       

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    
 
    James F. Albaugh   
      
  59  
      
  Executive Vice President since July 2002 and President and Chief Executive Officer of BCA since September 2009. Prior thereto, President and CEO of BDS from July 2002 to August 2009. Prior
thereto, Senior Vice President of Boeing and President of Space and Communications Group since September 1998 (named CEO of Space and Communications Group in March 2001). Prior thereto, President, Boeing Space Transportation since April 1998 and
President of Rocketdyne Propulsion and Power since March 1997. Mr. Albaugh serves on the board of TRW Automotive Holdings, Inc.   

James A. Bell   
      
  61  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2004 and Corporate President since June 2008. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller
from October 2000 to January 2004. Prior thereto, Vice President of Contracts and Pricing for Boeing Space Communications from January 1997 to October 2000. Mr. Bell serves on the boards of The Dow Chemical Company and Boeing Capital Corporation.

Wanda K. Denson-Low   
      
  53  
      
  Senior Vice President, Office of Internal Governance since May 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President and Assistant General Counsel of BDS from August 2003 to May 2007. Prior thereto, Vice
President of Human Resources for BDS from March 2002 to August 2003. Ms. Denson-Low joined Boeing when the Company acquired Hughes Space and Communications in 2000, when she held the position of Vice President, General Counsel.   

Thomas J. Downey   
      
  45  
      
  Senior Vice President, Communications since January 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President, Corporate Communications from April to December 2006 and Vice President, BCA Communications from
May 2002 to April 2006. Prior positions include Corporate Vice President, Internal and Executive Communications and General Manager of Communications and Community Relations for Military Aircraft and Missile Systems unit. Mr. Downey joined the
Company in 1986.   

Shephard W. Hill   
      
  57  
      
  President, Boeing International since November 2007 and Senior Vice President, Business Development and Strategy since October 2009. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Business
Development and Strategy from March 2006 to November 2007. Prior thereto, Vice President, Business Development at BDS from September 2002 to March 2006. Mr. Hill joined Boeing when the Company acquired Rockwell s Aerospace and Defense business
in 1996, when he held the position of Vice President, Aerospace Government Affairs and Marketing.   
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

Name   
      
   Age   
      
   Principal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations    

Timothy J. Keating   
      
  48  
      
  Senior Vice President, Government Operations since June 2008. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Global Government Relations, Honeywell International Inc. from October 2002 to May 2008.
Prior thereto, Mr. Keating was Chairman of the Board and Managing Partner of Timmons and Company (a Washington, D.C. lobbying firm) from 1998 until 2002.   

J. Michael Luttig   
      
  55  
      
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2009. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and General Counsel from May 2006 to April 2009. Prior thereto, Mr. Luttig served on the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from October 1991 to May 2006. Prior thereto, Assistant Attorney General of the United States, Counselor to the Attorney General at the Department of Justice and Principal Deputy Assistant
Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. Luttig was associated with Davis Polk   Wardwell LLP from September 1985 to March 1989. Mr. Luttig serves on the board of Boeing Capital Corporation and as Director, Franklin Templeton Mutual
Funds.   

W. James McNerney, Jr.   
      
  60  
      
  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2005. Previously, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company (diversified technology) from January 2001 to
June 2005. Beginning in 1982, he served in management positions at General Electric Company, his most recent being President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Aircraft Engines from 1997 until 2000. In addition to The Boeing Company, Mr. McNerney
serves on the boards of The Procter   Gamble Company and International Business Machines Corporation. He is also a member of various business and educational organizations.   

Dennis A. Muilenburg   
      
  45  
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer of BDS since September 2009. Prior thereto, President of Global Services   Support from February 2008 to August 2009.
Prior thereto, Vice President and General Manager of Combat Systems from May 2006 to February 2008. Prior thereto, Vice President and Program Manager for Future Combat Systems from 2003 to May 2006. Mr. Muilenburg joined the Company in
1985.   

Richard D. Stephens   
      
  57  
      
  Senior Vice President Human Resources and Administration since September 2005. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Internal Services from December 2004 to September 2005. Prior
positions include President of Shared Services Group and Vice President and General Manager, Homeland Security and Services. Mr. Stephens joined the Company in 1980.   

John J. Tracy   
      
  55  
      
  Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of Engineering, Operations and Technology since October 2006. Prior thereto, Vice President of
Engineering and Mission Assurance for BDS, February 2004 to September 2006. Prior positions include Vice President of Structural Technologies, Prototyping, and Quality for Phantom Works and General Manager of Engineering for Military Aircraft and
Missiles. Dr. Tracy joined the Company in 1981.   
       
   117   

Table of Contents  

   Information relating to our directors and nominees will be included under the caption  Election of
Directors  in the 2010 Proxy Statement for our Annual Shareholders Meeting to be held on April 26, 2010 and is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Items 405, 407(d)(4) and 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K will be
included under the captions  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and  Audit Committee  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.       Codes of Ethics.  We have adopted (1) The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for the Board of Directors; (2) The Boeing Company Code of
Conduct for Finance Employees which is applicable to our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Controller and all finance employees; and (3) The Boeing Code of Conduct that applies to all employees, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
(collectively, the Codes of Conduct). The Codes of Conduct are posted on our website, www.boeing.com, and printed copies may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Office of Internal Governance, The Boeing Company, 100 N. Riverside, Chicago,
IL 60606. We intend to disclose promptly on our website any amendments to, or waivers of, the Codes of Conduct covering our CEO, CFO and/or Controller.      No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers, directors or director nominees.         Item 11.
Executive Compensation       The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions  Executive
Compensation  and  Director Compensation  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Item 407(e)(4) and 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K will be included under
the captions  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Stock Ownership Information  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and
that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   118   

Table of Contents  

    Equity Compensation Plan Information       We currently maintain two equity compensation plans that provide for the issuance of common stock to officers and other employees, directors and consultants. Each of these compensation plans was approved by our
shareholders. The following table sets forth information regarding outstanding options and shares available for future issuance under these plans as of December 31, 2009:       

1     
     
    Excludes the potential performance awards which the Compensation Committee has the discretion to pay in cash, stock or a combination of both after the three-year
performance periods in 2010 and 2011.         For further information, refer to Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Related Person Transactions  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and
the information is incorporated by reference herein.      The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption
 Director Independence  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and the information is incorporated by reference herein.         Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services       The information required by this Item will be
included under the caption  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  in the 2010 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.         
   119   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
     
  List of documents filed as part of this report:         

1.   
     
   Financial Statements         Our consolidated
financial statements are as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K.       

2.   
     
   Financial Statement Schedules          

Schedule    
      
     Description    
      
   Page    
 
  II  
      
   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  126   
    The auditors  report with respect to the above-listed financial statement schedule appears
on page 113 of this report. All other financial statements and schedules not listed are omitted either because they are not applicable, not required, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements.       

(2)  
     
  Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement, Liquidation or Succession.         

(ii)  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 14, 1996, among The Boeing Company, West Acquisition Corp. and McDonnell Douglas Corporation.
(Exhibit (2)(ii) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-442) for the year ended December 31, 1996).         

(3)  
     
  Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.         

(i)  
     
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Boeing Company dated May 5, 2006 (Exhibit 3 (i) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
May 1, 2006).         

The Boeing Company Bank Credit Agreements          

(i)  
     
  U.S. $1.525 Billion 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of November 13, 2009, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication
agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent for such Lenders (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 13, 2009).         

(ii)  
     
    U.S. $2.0 Billion Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, among The Boeing Company, the Lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase
           
   120   

Table of Contents  

Bank, as syndicated agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, and Citibank, N.A. as administrative agent for such
Lenders (Exhibit (10)(ii) to the Company s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007).          

Business Acquisition Agreements          

(iii)  
     
  Joint Venture Master Agreement by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and a Delaware LLC, dated as of May 2, 2005 (Exhibit (10)(i) to the
Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005).         

(iv)  
     
  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005 by and between The Boeing Company and Mid-Western Aircraft Systems, Inc. (Exhibit (10)(i) to the
Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005).         

(v)  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 30, 2006, by and among The Boeing Company, Boeing-Avenger, Inc., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Boeing, and Aviall, Inc.
(Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2006).         

(vii)  
     
  Asset Purchase Agreement by and between Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. and BCACSC, Inc. dated as of July 6, 2009 (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2009).         

Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans          

(ix)  
     
  1992 Stock Option Plan for Nonemployee Directors.         

(x)  
  Supplemental Benefit Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Form S-8 filed on
December 22, 2008).         

(xii)  
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008 (Exhibit (10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated October 28, 2007).           
   121   

Table of Contents  

(xiii)  
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of The Boeing Company, as amended on January 1, 2008 (Exhibit (10)(ii) (Management Contracts) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007).         

(b)  
     
  Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant.         

(xv)  
  Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees of the Company and Subsidiaries, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008 (Exhibit (10.7) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007).         

(xxii)  
  Compensation for Directors of The Boeing Company (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008).     

(xxiii)  
  2006 Compensation for Named Executive Officers (The Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 3, 2006). (Form of Performance Award. Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Grant Notice.)         

(xxvi)  
  Stock Purchase and Restriction Agreement dated as of July 1, 1996, between The Boeing Company and Wachovia Bank of North Carolina, N.A. as Trustee, under the ShareValue
Trust Agreement dated as of July 1, 1996 (Exhibit 10.20 to the Form S-4).           
   122   

Table of Contents  

(xxix)  
  The Boeing Company Executive Layoff Benefits Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2010.         

(xxxi)  
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Employees of the Boeing Company, as amended and restated on January 1, 2008 (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2007).         

(xxxii)  
  The Boeing Company Elected Officer Annual Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008 (Exhibit 10.6 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated October 28, 2007).         

(xxxiv)  
  Amended Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 25, 2009).         

(xxxvi)  
  Registration Rights Agreement dated November 9, 2009 by and between The Boeing Company and EvercoreTrust Company, N.A., solely in its capacity as duly appointed and acting
investment manager of a segregated account held in The Boeing Company Employee Retirement Plans Master Trust (the  Trust ) (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form S-3 Registration Statement filed November 10, 2009).

(12)  
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.         

(i)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for Member of the Board of Directors (http://www.boeing.com/corp_gov/conduct_board.html).         

(ii)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees (http://www.boeing.com/corp_gov/conduct_finance.html).         

(iii)  
     
  The Boeing Company Code of Conduct (http://www.boeing.com/corp_gov/conduct_employee.html).         

(21)  
     
  List of Company Subsidiaries.         

(23)  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in connection with filings on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933.           
   123   

Table of Contents  

(i)  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(ii)  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(i)  
     
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(ii)  
     
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.         

(99)  
     
  Additional Exhibits         

(ii)  
     
  Post-Merger Combined Statements of Operations and Financial Position (Exhibit (99)(i) to the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

(101.SCH)  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document         

(101.CAL)  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document         

(101.DEF)  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document         

(101.LAB)  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document         

(101.PRE)  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document                In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation
S-K, copies of certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries are not filed herewith. Pursuant to this regulation, we hereby agree to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
request.         
   124   

Table of Contents  

      Signatures       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 8, 2010.      THE BOEING COMPANY       

By:  
     
    / S /    W. J AMES 
M C N ERNEY , J R .           

By:  
     
    / S /    J AMES  A.
B ELL             

W. James McNerney, Jr.   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

James A. Bell   Executive Vice President, Corporate President      and Chief Financial Officer    
 
  By:  
     
    / S /    R OBERT  J.
P ASTERICK            

Robert J. Pasterick   Vice President of Finance   Corporate Controller  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 8, 2010.       

/ S /    J OHN  H. B IGGS              John H. Biggs   Director   

/ S /    K ENNETH  M.
D UBERSTEIN              Kenneth M. Duberstein   Director    

/ S /    J OHN  E.
B RYSON              John E. Bryson   Director   

/ S /    E DMUND  P. G IAMBASTIANI ,
J R .             Edmund P. Giambastiani, Jr.   Director    

/ S /    D AVID  L.
C ALHOUN              David L. Calhoun   Director   

/ S /    J OHN  F.
M C D ONNELL              John F. McDonnell  
Director    

/ S /    A RTHUR  D. C OLLINS ,
J R .             Arthur D. Collins, Jr.   Director   

/ S /    W. J AMES 
M C N ERNEY , J R .             W. James McNerney, Jr.  
Director    

/ S /    L INDA  Z.
C OOK              Linda Z. Cook   Director   

/ S /    M IKE  S.
Z AFIROVSKI              Mike S. Zafirovski   Director    

/ S /    W ILLIAM  M.
D ALEY              William M. Daley   Director   

125   

Table of Contents  

      SCHEDULE II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries       Allowance for Customer Financing and Other Assets      (Deducted from assets to which they apply)       (Dollars in millions)        

(1)   
     
        Includes $179 transferred in from
Other accrued liabilities and $67 in charges to costs and expenses.      
       EXHIBIT (12)        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries        (Dollars in millions)        

(1)     
     
    Amount does not include tax-related interest expense which is reported as a component of Income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
           
   126   

<EX-10.29>
 2
 dex1029.htm
 EXECUTIVE LAYOFF BENEFITS PLAN AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2010

Executive Layoff Benefits Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2010 

EXHIBIT 10(xxix)        THE BOEING COMPANY        EXECUTIVE LAYOFF BENEFITS PLAN
      Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010   

TABLE OF CONTENTS         

ARTICLE 1         PURPOSE        The Boeing Company established The Boeing Company Executive Layoff
Benefits Plan to provide for lump sum payments as layoff benefits for its executive employees effective August 1, 1997. This document is an amendment and complete restatement of the Plan and is effective for Layoff Events occurring on or after
January 1, 2010.      It is intended that this Plan constitute a welfare benefit severance pay plan under ERISA and that any and all amounts
payable under this Plan satisfy the requirements for exemption from Code Section 409A. The Plan shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with such intentions.       ARTICLE 2         DEFINITIONS         

2.1  
   Affiliate or Subsidiary  means a member (other than The Boeing Company) of a controlled group of corporations (as defined in Code Section 1563(a) determined
without regard to Code Sections 1563(a)(4) and (e)(3)(c)), a group of trades or businesses (whether incorporated or not) which are under common control within the meaning of Code Section 414(c), or an affiliated service group (as defined in
Code Section 414(m) or 414(o)) of which The Boeing Company is a part.         

2.2  
   Base Salary  means annual salary excluding bonuses and incentive payments, fringe benefits, and other perquisites.         

2.4  
   Committee  means the Employee Benefit Plans Committee (or its successor) appointed by the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company.         

2.5  
   Company  means The Boeing Company and any Affiliate or Subsidiary which has adopted the Plan by action of its Board of Directors.         

2.6  
   Compensation Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company.         

2.7  
   Employee  means a person who is employed by the Company including a person on an approved leave of absence.         

2.8  
   Equivalent Employment  means an employment offer made prior to a Layoff Event:         

a)  
  at an annual base salary equal to no less than 90% of the Employee s Base Salary at the time of the offer;           
   1   

b)  
  if the Employee is eligible for incentive compensation, with a target under the applicable incentive compensation plan which is no less than 90% of the Employee s
target at the time of the offer; and         

c)  
  for a job which is located within 70 miles of the normal location of the Employee s employment at the time of the offer.         

2.9  
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.         

2.10  
   E-Series Payroll Employees  means Employees with an executive designation of level E1 to E6.         

2.11  
   Incentive Plan  means The Boeing Company Elected Officer Annual Incentive Plan or the Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees of the Boeing Company and
Subsidiaries, as applicable.         

2.12  
   Involuntary Layoff  means that an Employee s position has been eliminated by the Company.         

2.15  
   Plan  means The Boeing Company Executive Layoff Benefits Plan.         

2.16  
   Plan Year  means the calendar year.         

2.17  
   Service  shall be determined in the same manner as the service time calculation under the Company Service Awards Program procedure.         

2.18  
   Specified Employee  means an Employee who is a  specified employee  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. Specified Employee status is
determined on the last day of the prior Plan Year, to take effect as of April 1 of the Plan Year for a 12-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Specified Employees shall be determined by including the employees whom the Company
reasonably determines to be the 75 top-paid officers of the Company rather than the 50 top-paid officers as provided under Code Section 416(i)(1)(A), to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A.         ARTICLE 3         ELIGIBILITY AND LAYOFF EVENT         

3.1  
   Eligibility . In order to be eligible for a Layoff Benefit, an Employee must meet the following requirements as of the date of the Layoff Event:

a)  
  The Employee must be a member of a participating group of Employees in accordance with Section 3.2;           
   2   

b)  
  The Employee must have at least one year of Service; and         

c)  
  A Layoff Event must occur with respect to the Employee.         

3.2  
   Participating Groups . Employees of the Company who are E-Series Payroll Employees shall participate in the Plan. The Compensation Committee may, by written
resolution, provide for participation of other Employees as of an effective date specified in the resolution.         

3.3  
   Layoff Events . A Layoff Event is an Involuntary Layoff from employment with the Company, but does not include a layoff if:         

a)  
  The Employee becomes employed by the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary of the Company within 90 days of the layoff or refuses an offer of employment by the Company
or any Affiliate or Subsidiary of the Company as an E-Series Payroll Employee;         

b)  
  The layoff occurs (i) because of a merger, sale, spin-off, reorganization, or similar transfer of assets or stock, or because of a change in the operator of a
facility or a party to a contract, or because of an outsourcing of work, and (ii) the Employee either continues in Equivalent Employment (in the case of a stock sale or similar transaction), or the Employee is offered Equivalent Employment with
the new employer, operator or contractor (or an affiliated business enterprise);         

c)  
  The layoff occurs because of an act of God, natural disaster or national emergency;         

d)  
  The layoff occurs because of a strike, picketing of the Company s premises, work stoppage or any similar action that would interrupt or interfere with any
operation of the Company; or         

e)  
  The termination of employment of the Employee is for any reason other than Involuntary Layoff, such as voluntary or temporary layoff, completion of a temporary
assignment, resignation, dismissal, retirement, death or leave of absence.         ARTICLE 4         LAYOFF BENEFIT         

4.1  
   Layoff Benefit . The Layoff Benefit for an Employee who incurs a Layoff Event on or after January 1, 2010 is equal to:         

a)  
  One year of Base Salary (as in effect immediately prior to the Layoff Event), plus         

b)  
    The Employee s annual target incentive under the Incentive Plan multiplied by the Company performance score applicable to the Employee under the
Incentive Plan for the year during which the Layoff Event occurs, limited to the actual payout under the
           
   3   

Incentive Plan, if any, for such year for an active Employee with the same target incentive (and an individual performance score of 1.0) and determined as though the Employee were employed by the
same business unit throughout such year as he or she is employed by on the date of the Layoff Event, less          

c)  
  If applicable, the total of all payments made, or to be made, pursuant to any individual employment, separation or severance agreement.        Incentive pay will not include any portion of an incentive award that the Company seeks to recover under the Clawback Policy provision of the
Incentive Plan.       

4.2  
   Timing of Payment . An Employee will receive the portion of the Layoff Benefit described in Section 4.1(a) (as adjusted by Section 4.1(c)) in a lump sum
within a reasonable period of time following the Layoff Event, but in no event later than 2-1/2 months after the end of the calendar year in which occurs the Layoff Event. An Employee will receive the portion, if any, of the Layoff Benefit described
in Section 4.1(b) (as adjusted by Section 4.1(c)) in a lump sum in the year following the year of the Layoff Event, but in no event later than 2-1/2 months after the end of the year following the year in which occurs the Layoff Event.
       It is intended all amounts payable under this Plan shall satisfy the requirements for exemption under Code
Section 409A, and all terms and provisions shall be interpreted to satisfy such requirements. Specifically, it is intended that an amount payable under this Plan qualify as a short-term deferral (as described in Treas. Reg.  
1.409A-1(b)(4)) and, to the extent not a short-term deferral, as a separation payment due to an involuntary separation from service (as described in Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)). However, in the unlikely event that a portion of a Layoff
Benefit payable to a Specified Employee is not exempt from the requirements of Code Section 409A (a  Non-Exempt Amount ), such Non-Exempt Amount will be paid to the Specified Employee as soon as practicable on or after the later of
(i) the first day of the seventh month following the Specified Employee s Layoff Event, or (ii) the time specified in the paragraph above.      All payments under this Plan shall be net of any and all applicable withholding taxes, and interest shall not accrue on any portion of the Layoff Benefit, regardless of the time of payment.       

4.3  
   Limit on Payment . No Employee shall be paid more than one Layoff Benefit under this Plan.         

4.4  
   Recovery of Payment . If a Layoff Benefit is paid to an Employee and the Committee determines that all or part of such payment was not owed under the terms of the
Plan, the Company reserves the right to recover such payment, including deducting such amounts from any sums due the Employee.           
   4   

4.5  
   Recovery of Debt . If an Employee owes the Company an acknowledged debt, including, but not limited to, loans, relocation fees, and travel advances, such debt may
be deducted from the Layoff Benefit, subject to applicable state laws.         

4.6  
   Waiver of Claims . As a condition to receiving the Layoff Benefit described in Section 4.2, the Employee must execute a release of all claims by submitting
to the Company a Waiver and Release form in a form provided by the Company.         

4.7  
   Death Benefit . No Layoff Benefits are due under the Plan with respect to an Employee to the extent not received by the Employee prior to his death.

4.8  
   Forfeiture . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in the case of Layoff Events occurring on or after January 1, 2008, the Committee may
determine, in its sole discretion, that an Employee will forfeit any part or all of his or her Layoff Benefit if any of the following circumstances occur while employed by the Company or within five (5) years after termination of such
employment:         

1.  
  The Employee is convicted of a felony involving theft, fraud, embezzlement, or other similar unlawful acts against the Company or against the Company s interests.
For purposes of this Plan,  other similar unlawful acts against the Company or against the Company s interests  shall include any other unlawful act (i) committed against the Company, or the interests of the Company, including,
but not limited to, a governmental agency or instrumentality which conducts business with the Company, or a customer of the Company, or (ii) affecting the Company or the interests of the Company, in such a manner that is determined to be
detrimental to, prejudicial to or in conflict with the Company or the interests of the Company, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.         

2.  
  The Employee, directly or indirectly, engages in any activity, whether individually or as an employee, consultant or otherwise, which the Committee determines, in its
sole discretion, to be an activity in which the Employee is  engaging in competition  with any significant aspect of Company business. For purposes of this Plan,  engaging in competition  shall include but is not limited to
representing, providing services to, or being an employee of or associated in a business capacity, any person or entity that is engaged, directly or indirectly, in competition with any Company business or that takes a position adverse to any Company
business, regardless of the position or duties the Employee takes, in such a manner that is determined to be detrimental to, prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests of the Company, all as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

3.  
  The Employee, without the advance approval of the Company s Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration, induces or attempts to induce, directly or
indirectly, any of the Company s employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Company, or to breach any contract with the Company, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract
with, the Employee or any third party.           
   5   

4.  
  The Employee disparages or otherwise makes any statements about the Company, its products, or its employees that could be in any way viewed as negative or critical.
Nothing in this paragraph will apply to legally protected statements to government agencies or statements made in the course of sworn testimony in administrative, judicial, or arbitral proceedings.        To the extent the Employee has already commenced payment of his or her Layoff Benefit, the Committee will be entitled to pursue any and all
legal and equitable relief against the Employee to enforce the forfeiture of and recover such Layoff Benefit. The forfeiture provisions will continue to apply unless and to the extent modified by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, if any
portion of these forfeiture provisions is held by such a court to be unenforceable, these provisions shall be deemed amended to limit their scope to the broadest scope that such authority determines is enforceable, and as so amended shall continue
in effect.      In addition, the Committee will, in all appropriate circumstances, require reimbursement of any Layoff Benefit
attributable to an incentive award that the Company seeks to recover under the Clawback Policy provision of the Incentive Plan.       ARTICLE 5         ADMINISTRATION         

5.1  
   Plan Administration . The Committee will serve as the Plan administrator and named fiduciary pursuant to ERISA. The Committee will have complete control of the
administration of the Plan, subject to the provisions hereof, with all powers necessary to enable it to carry out its duties properly in that respect. Not in limitation, but in amplification of the foregoing, it will have the power to interpret the
Plan, to apply its discretion, and to determine all questions that may arise hereunder, including all questions relating to the eligibility of Employees to participate in the Plan and the amount of benefit to which any Employee may become entitled.
Its decisions upon all matters within the scope of its authority will be final and binding.         

5.2  
   Rules and Procedures . The Committee will establish rules and procedures to be followed by Employees in filing applications for benefits and in other matters
required to administer the Plan.         

5.3  
     Committee Liability . The members of the Committee shall use ordinary care and diligence in the performance of their duties, but no member shall
be personally liable by virtue of any contract, agreement, or other instrument made or executed by a member of the Committee, nor for any mistake or judgment made by such member or by any other member. No member of the Committee will be liable for
the neglect, omission or wrongdoing of any
           
   6   

other member or of the agents or counsel of the Committee. The Company shall indemnify each member of the Committee against, and hold each member harmless from any and all expenses and
liabilities arising out of, any act or omission to act as a member of the Committee, to the fullest extent permitted under the by-laws of the Company.          

5.4  
   Claim Procedure . The Committee shall adopt procedures for the presentation of claims for benefits and for the review of the denial of such claims by the
Committee. The decision of the Committee upon such review shall be final, subject to appeal rights provided by law.         ARTICLE 6         GENERAL PROVISIONS         

6.1  
   Plan Amendment and Termination . The Company, acting through the Compensation Committee, may amend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time. Such
amendments may include any remedial retroactive changes to comply with the requirements of any law or regulation issued by any government agency to which the Company is subject.         

6.2  
   Funding . The Plan shall be unfunded, and Layoff Benefits shall be paid from the general assets of the Company.         

6.3  
   Benefit Plan Application . Layoff Benefits and periods for which an Employee receives a Layoff Benefit shall not be considered as compensation or service under
any employee benefit plan or program and shall not be counted toward Service under this Plan. Layoff Benefits may not be deferred into the Voluntary Investment Plan or any other cash or deferred arrangement.         

6.4  
   Provision Against Anticipation . No benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge,
encumbrance, charge, or other legal process, and any attempt to do so shall be void.         

6.5  
   Employment Status . Nothing contained in the Plan will be deemed to give any Employee the right to be retained in, or recalled to, the employ of the Company or to
interfere with the rights of the Company to discharge any Employee at any time.         

6.6  
   Facility of Payment . If any Employee is physically or mentally incapable of giving a valid receipt for any payment due and no legal representative has been
appointed for such Employee, the Committee may make such payment to any person or institution maintaining such Employee and the release of such person or institution will be a valid and complete discharge for such payment. Any final payment or
distribution to any Employee or the legal representative of the Employee in accordance with the provisions herein will be in full satisfaction of all claims against the Plan, the Committee, and the Company arising under or by virtue of the Plan.
          
   7   

6.7  
   Construction . The validity of the Plan or any of its provisions will be determined under and will be construed according to federal law and, to the extent
permissible, according to the internal laws of the state of Illinois. If any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid for any reason, such determination will not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan and the Plan will be construed and
enforced as if said illegal or invalid provision had never been included.         

6.8  
   Legal Actions . No legal action may be brought in court on a claim for benefits under the Plan after 180 days following the decision on appeal (or 180 days
following the expiration of the time to make an appeal if no appeal is made).         

6.9  
   Compliance With Code Section 409A . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the Employee s rights under this Plan with respect
to any Non-Exempt Amount (as defined in Section 4.2) and the provisions of this Plan relating to such Non-Exempt Amount will be deemed modified in order to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A to the extent determined by the
Committee.           
   8   

</EX-10.29>

<EX-21>
 3
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF COMPANY SUBSIDIARIES

List of Company Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT (21)        List of Company Subsidiaries        The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries  

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    
 
  757UA, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ACN 106 604 871 Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  AeroSpace Technologies of Australia Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Aileron Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Akash, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Alteon Training International Spain, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Alteon Training Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Alteon Training Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Astro Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Astro-II, Inc.  
      
  Vermont   
 
  Atara Holding Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Atara Services Norway AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Autometric, Inc.  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Autonomous Underwater Ventures, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall (Canada) Ltd.  
      
  Ontario   
 
  Aviall Airstocks Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Aviall Asia Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Aviall Australia Holdings Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Aviall Australia Pty. Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Aviall de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
  Aviall Foreign Sales Corporation  
      
  Barbados   
 
  Aviall Japan Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall New Zealand  
      
  New Zealand   
 
  Aviall Product Repair Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall PTE LTD  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Aviall Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviall, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Aviation Fleet Services India Management Company Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  BCC Aruba Leasing A.V.V.  
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
  BCC Bolongo Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Bolongo Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  BCC Carbita Point Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Carbita Point Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  BCC Cascades Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Charlotte Amalie Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Charlotte Amalie Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  BCC Cove Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Drakes Passage Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Equipment Leasing Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Grand Cayman Limited  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  BCC Lindbergh Bay Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Mafolie Hill Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Magens Bay Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BCC Red Hook Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BITG Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
       
   127   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

BITG LLP  
      
  Washington   
 
  BNA International Systems, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNA Operations International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ Net Jets, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ Sales Company L.L.C.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BNJ, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing   Corinth Co.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing   Irving Co.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Training Leasing Corp.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing (Asia) Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Boeing (Asia) Services Investment Limited, a Hong Kong company  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Boeing (China) Co., Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
  Boeing (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  Boeing (Gibraltar) Limited  
      
  Gibraltar   
 
  Boeing 100 North Riverside LLC  
      
  Illinois   
 
  Boeing Aerospace   TAMS, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Middle East Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Operations   International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerospace Operations, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aerostructures Australia Pty Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Airborne Surveillance Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Aircraft Holding Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Asia Training Holdings Limited  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
  Boeing Australia Component Repairs Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Australia Holdings Proprietary Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Brasil Servi os T cnicos Aeron uticos Ltda.  
      
  Brazil   
 
  Boeing Business Services Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Canada Holding Ltd.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Boeing Canada Operations Ltd.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Boeing Capital Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Leasing Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Boeing Capital Loan Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Securities Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Capital Washington Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing CAS GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing CAS Holding GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing China, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Commercial Airplanes Charleston South Carolina, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Commercial Space Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Constructors, Inc.  
      
  Texas   
 
  Boeing Cyprus Holdings Ltd  
      
  Cyprus   
 
  Boeing Defence Australia LTD  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Defence UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing Domestic Sales Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing Enterprises Australia, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Financial Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing Global Holdings Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Global Sales Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
       
   128   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Boeing Global Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Hornet Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Hungary, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing India Property Management Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Boeing International B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing International B.V.   Co. Holding KGaA  
      
  Germany   
 
  Boeing International Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Corporation India Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Boeing International Holdings, Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Boeing International Logistics Spares, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Overhaul   Repair Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing International Sales Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Boeing International Support Systems Company Saudi Arabia Limited  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
  Boeing Investment Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Boeing Japan Kabushiki Kaisha  
      
  Japan   
 
  Boeing Launch Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Logistics Spares, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing LTS, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Management Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Middle East Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Netherlands B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Netherlands C.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Netherlands Leasing, B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Nevada, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing North American Space Alliance Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing North American Space Operations Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Norwegian Holdings AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Boeing of Canada Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Offset Company Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Operations International, Incorporated  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Overseas, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Phantom Works Investments, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Precision Gear, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Qatar Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Research   Technology Europe, S.L.  
      
  Spain   
 
  Boeing Russia, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Sales Corporation  
      
  Guam   
 
  Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Service Company  
      
  Texas   
 
  Boeing Shanghai Aviation Flight Training Co., Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
  Boeing Singapore Training and Flight Services Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Boeing Space Operations Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Stellar Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Stores, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Sweden Holdings AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Boeing Training   Flight Services Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Boeing Training Center Management Company Limited  
      
  Cyprus   
       
   129   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Boeing Training Services Korea LLC  
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
  Boeing Travel Management Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing UK Training and Flight Services Holding Limited (f/k/a Alteon Training Holding UK Limited)  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing UK Training and Flight Services Limited (f/k/a Alteon Training UK Limited)  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing United Kingdom Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Boeing US Training and Flight Services L.L.C.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Boeing Worldwide Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Boeing Worldwide Operations Limited  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Boeing-SVS, Inc.  
      
  Nevada   
 
  CAG, Inc.  
      
  Oregon   
 
  Carmen Options AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  CBSA Leasing II, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CBSA Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CBSA Partners, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  C-Map USA, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  C-Map/Commercial, Ltd.  
      
  Massachusetts   
 
  Connexion by Boeing Ireland Limited  
      
  Ireland   
 
  Connexion By Boeing Of Canada Company  
      
  Canada   
 
  Conquest, Inc.  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Continental DataGraphics Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Continental DataGraphics Technical Services India Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Continental Graphics Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Continental Graphics Holdings, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Cougar, Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  Cruise L.L.C.  
      
  Russian Federation   
 
  Delmar Photographic   Printing Company  
      
  North Carolina   
 
  Digital Receiver Technology, Inc.  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Dillon, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Douglas Express Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Douglas Federal Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Douglas Leasing Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Falcon II Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Falcon Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  Frontier Systems, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  FSBTI Argentina S.R.L.  
      
  Argentina   
 
  Global Aeronautica, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hanway Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Hawk Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ILS eBusiness Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Insitu Pacific Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Insitu, Inc.  
      
  Washington   
 
  Intellibus Network Solutions, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Inventory Locator Service, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Inventory Locator Service-UK, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen (Canada) Ltd.  
      
  Quebec   
 
  Jeppesen Asia/Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Jeppesen Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Jeppesen DataPlan, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
       
   130   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

Jeppesen GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Jeppesen Hellas Marine Single Member Limited Liability Company  
      
  Greece   
 
  Jeppesen India Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
  Jeppesen Italia S.r.l.  
      
  Italy   
 
  Jeppesen Japan K.K.  
      
  Japan   
 
  Jeppesen Korea Co., Ltd.  
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
  Jeppesen Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
      
  Malaysia   
 
  Jeppesen Marine Australia Pty Limited  
      
  Australia   
 
  Jeppesen Marine UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jeppesen Marine, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen Norway AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solution AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solutions UK Ltd  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jeppesen Optimization Solutions, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen Poland Spolka z ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia  
      
  Poland   
 
  Jeppesen Sanderson, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Jeppesen South Africa (Proprietary) Ltd.  
      
  South Africa   
 
  Jeppesen Systems AB  
      
  Sweden   
 
  Jeppesen U.K. Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Jeppesen Ukraine  
      
  Ukraine   
 
  Kestrel Enterprises, Inc.  

Kuta-One Aircraft Corporation, Limited  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Kuta-Two Aircraft Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Longacres Park, Inc.  
      
  Washington   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Dakota Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Express, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas F-15 Technical Services Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Foreign Sales Corporation  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Support Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Indonesia Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Middle East, Ltd.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Services, Inc.  
      
  Missouri   
 
  McDonnell Douglas Truck Services, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MD Indonesia Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MD-Air Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Aircraft Leasing Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Aircraft Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Carson Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Carson Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Express Leasing Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Express Leasing Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Knoxville Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Knoxville Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Lakewood Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Memphis Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Memphis Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Reno Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Sierra Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MDFC   Spring Limited  
      
  Virgin Islands, U.S.   
 
  MDFC   Tahoe Company  
      
  Delaware   
       
   131   

Name   
      
   Place of Incorporation    

MDFC Spring Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  MD-Federal Holding Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Montana Aviation Research Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Morintech Ltd.  
      
  Russian Federation   
 
  Ocean Systems Incorporated  
      
  California   
 
  ORCAS Leasing B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  OU Jeppesen Estonia  
      
  Estonia   
 
  Pacific Business Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Preston Aviation Solutions Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Preston Aviation Solutions Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  Raven Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RGL-3 Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RGL-4 Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Rocketdyne, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Skarven Enterprises, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Spectrolab, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  Taiko Leasing, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Tapestry Solutions, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  Thayer Leasing Company-1  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Wingspan, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Yunnan Alteon Boeing Advanced Flight Training Co., Ltd  
      
  China   
    Total Number of Subsidiaries: 263       
  
   132   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT (23)        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation
by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-25332, 33-31434, 33-43854, 33-58798, 33-52773, 333-03191, 333-16363, 333-26867, 333-32461, 333-32491, 333-32499, 333-32567, 333-35324, 333-41920, 333-47450, 333-54234, 333-73252, 333-107677, 333-140837,
333-156403, 333-160752 and 333-163637 on Form S-8 and Post-Effective Amendments to Registration Statement Nos. 333-03191, 333-35324, and 333-47450, on Form S-8, and Registration Statement Nos. 333-157790 and 333-163020 on Form S-3 of our reports
dated February 8, 2010, relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Boeing Company, and the effectiveness of The Boeing Company s internal control over financial reporting appearing in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2009.      / S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP          Chicago, Illinois      February 8, 2010         
   133   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.I>
 5
 dex31i.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Certification 

EXHIBIT (31)(i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, W. James McNerney, Jr., certify that:       

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;         

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 8, 2010       

/ S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY ,
J R .     W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman,
President and     Chief Executive Officer    
       
   134   

</EX-31.I>

<EX-31.II>
 6
 dex31ii.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Certification 

EXHIBIT (31)(ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        RULE 13a-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, James A. Bell, certify that:       

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Boeing Company;         

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 8, 2010       

/ S / J AMES  A. B ELL      James A. Bell     Executive Vice President, Corporate     President and Chief Financial Officer    
       
   135   

</EX-31.II>

<EX-32.I>
 7
 dex32i.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Certification 

EXHIBIT (32)(i)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, W. James McNerney, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
     
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
     
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S / W. J AMES  M C N ERNEY ,
J R .     W. James McNerney, Jr.     Chairman,
President and     Chief Executive Officer    
    February 8, 2010         
   136   

</EX-32.I>

<EX-32.II>
 8
 dex32ii.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Certification 

EXHIBIT (32)(ii)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of The Boeing Company (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James A. Bell, Executive Vice President, Corporate President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
     
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
     
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

/ S / J AMES  A. B ELL      James A. Bell     Executive Vice President, Corporate     President and Chief Financial Officer    
    February 8, 2010         
   137   

</EX-32.II>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 ba-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 ba-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 ba-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 ba-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 ba-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 ba-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

