<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090217_10-K_edgar_data_66740_0001104659-09-009669_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4655521</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>458701</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3044186</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>102</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-09-009669.hdr.sgml : 20090216
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090213201740
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-09-009669
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090217
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090213

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			3M CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000066740
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS [3841]
		IRS NUMBER:				410417775
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03285
		FILM NUMBER:		09606477

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3M CENTER
		STREET 2:		BLDG. 220-11W-02
		CITY:			ST PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55144-1000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6517332204

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3M CENTER
		STREET 2:		BLDG. 220-11W-02
		CITY:			ST. PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55144-1000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AHFwr58+XD7FixL+ggf43Qk9ZoJiMtqtrtHrA9rTQ2Vjya1m6G3oMJe183B85TiS
 5azQvvh8LWrF/GsivYif8w==

 0001104659-09-009669.txt : 20090217

10-K
 1
 a09-1282_110k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents   

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008   

Commission file number 1-3285   

3M     COMPANY   

Principal executive offices:  3M Center,
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144   

Telephone number:  (651) 733-1110   

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF
THE ACT:   

Title
  of each class   

Name of
  each exchange 
  on which registered   

Common Stock,
  Par Value $.01 Per Share  

New York Stock
  Exchange, Inc. 
  Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.  

Note: The common stock of the Registrant is also
traded on the SWX Swiss Exchange.  

  Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of
the Act:  None   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.  Yes    x      No      o  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes    o      No    x  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    x      No    o  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
  o  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated
filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated filer
    x  

Accelerated filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer   o  
    (Do not check if a smaller 
  reporting company)  

Smaller reporting
  company   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   Yes    o      
No    x  

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant, computed by reference to the closing price and
shares outstanding, was approximately $37.3 billion as of January 30, 2009
(approximately $48.6 billion as of June 30, 2008, the last business day of
the Registrant s most recently completed second quarter).  

Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31,
2009: 693,791,556.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

Parts of the Company s definitive proxy statement (to
be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s fiscal
year-end of December 31, 2008) for its annual meeting to be held on May 12,
2009, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Part III,
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.  

This document
(excluding exhibits) contains 104 pages.  

  The table of contents is set forth on page 2. The exhibit index begins
on page 101.  

Table of Contents   

3M
COMPANY   

   FORM 10-K   

   For the Year Ended December 31, 2008   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

Beginning 
  Page   

PART I   

ITEM 1   

Business   

3  

ITEM 1A   

Risk
  Factors   

8  

ITEM 1B   

Unresolved Staff
  Comments   

9  

ITEM 2   

Properties   

9  

ITEM 3   

Legal Proceedings   

9  

ITEM 4   

Submission of
  Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

9  

PART II   

ITEM 5   

Market for
  Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
  of Equity Securities   

9  

ITEM 6   

Selected Financial
  Data   

11  

ITEM 7   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

12  

ITEM 7A   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

39  

ITEM 8   

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

40  

Index
  to Financial Statements   

40  

ITEM 9   

Changes in and
  Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

99  

ITEM 9A   

Controls and
  Procedures   

99  

ITEM 9B   

Other Information   

99  

PART III   

ITEM 10   

Directors,
  Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

99  

ITEM 11   

Executive
  Compensation   

100  

ITEM 12   

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters   

100  

ITEM 13   

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

100  

ITEM 14   

Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services   

100  

PART IV   

ITEM 15   

Exhibits,
  Financial Statement Schedules   

101  

Index
  to Exhibits   

101  

2  

Table of Contents   

3M
COMPANY   

   ANNUAL
REPORT ON FORM 10-K   

   For the Year Ended December 31, 2008   

PART I     

Item 1.  Business.      

3M Company was
incorporated in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware to continue
operations begun in 1902. The Company s ticker symbol is MMM. As used herein,
the term  3M  or  Company  includes 3M Company and its subsidiaries unless the
context indicates otherwise. In this document, for any references to Note 1
through Note 19, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8.  

Available
Information   

The SEC maintains a
website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically
with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with
the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly
reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The
public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at
the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  

3M also makes available
free of charge through its website (http://investor.3M.com) the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to,
the SEC.  

General   

3M is a diversified
technology company with a global presence in the following businesses:
Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Safety, Security and Protection
Services; Consumer and Office; Display and Graphics; and Electro and Communications.
3M is among the leading manufacturers of products for many of the markets it
serves. Most 3M products involve expertise in product development,
manufacturing and marketing, and are subject to competition from products
manufactured and sold by other technologically oriented companies.  

At December 31,
2008, the Company employed 79,183 people (full-time equivalents), with 33,662
employed in the United States and 45,521 employed internationally.  

Business
Segments   

As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, effective in the first quarter of 2008, 3M made certain product
moves between its business segments in its continuing effort to drive growth by
aligning businesses around markets and customers. Segment information presented
herein reflects the impact of these changes for all periods presented.  

3M continues to manage its operations in six operating
business segments: Industrial and Transportation; Health Care; Safety, Security
and Protection Services; Consumer and Office; Display and Graphics; and Electro
and Communications. 3M s six business segments bring together common or related
3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services
and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These segments have
worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines. Certain small
businesses and lab-sponsored products, as well as various corporate assets and
expenses, are not attributed to the business segments. Financial information
and other disclosures relating to 3M s business segments and operations in
major geographic areas are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

Industrial and Transportation
Business:    The
Industrial and Transportation segment serves a broad range of markets, such as
appliance, paper and packaging, food and beverage, electronics, automotive
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and automotive aftermarket (auto body
shops and retail). Industrial and Transportation products include tapes, a wide
variety of coated and non-woven abrasives, adhesives, specialty materials,
filtration products, closure systems for personal hygiene products, and
components and products that are used in the manufacture, repair and
maintenance of automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles. The August 2005
acquisition of CUNO, Incorporated ( CUNO ) added a comprehensive line of
filtration products for the separation, clarification and purification of
fluids and gases.  

Major industrial products
include vinyl, polyester, foil and specialty industrial tapes and adhesives;
Scotch  Masking Tape, Scotch  Filament Tape and Scotch  Packaging Tape;
packaging equipment; 3M  VHB  Bonding Tapes; conductive, low surface energy,
hot melt, spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials
for durable goods; and coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing
and grinding abrasives for the industrial market. Other products include a
comprehensive line of filtration products for the separation, clarification and
purification of   

3  

Table of Contents   

fluids and gases;
fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and gaskets in engines; engineering fluids;
and closures for disposable diapers.  

Major transportation
products include insulation components, including components for catalytic
converters; functional and decorative graphics; abrasion-resistant films;
masking tapes; fasteners and tapes for attaching nameplates, trim, moldings,
interior panels and carpeting; coated, nonwoven and microstructured finishing
and grinding abrasives; structural adhesives; and other specialty materials. In
addition, 3M provides paint finishing and detailing products, including a
complete system of cleaners, dressings, polishes, waxes and other products.  

Health Care Business:    The Health Care segment serves markets
that include medical clinics and hospitals, pharmaceuticals, dental and
orthodontic practitioners, and health information systems. Products and
services provided to these and other markets include medical and surgical
supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, drug delivery systems,
dental and orthodontic products, health information systems and anti-microbial
solutions. As discussed in Note 2, the global branded pharmaceuticals business
was sold in December 2006 and January 2007.  

In the medical and
surgical areas, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings, wound closure
products, orthopedic casting materials, electrodes and stethoscopes. In
infection prevention, 3M markets a variety of surgical drapes, masks and preps,
as well as sterilization assurance equipment. Other products include drug
delivery systems, such as metered-dose inhalers, transdermal skin patches and
related components. Dental and orthodontic products include restoratives,
adhesives, finishing and polishing products, crowns, impression materials,
preventive sealants, professional tooth whiteners, prophylaxis and orthodontic
appliances. In health information systems, 3M develops and markets computer
software for hospital coding and data classification, and provides related
consulting services. 3M provides microbiology products that make it faster and
easier for food processors to test the microbiological quality of food.  

Safety,
Security and Protection Services Business:    The Safety, Security and Protection Services segment
serves a broad range of markets that increase the safety, security and
productivity of workers, facilities and systems. Major product offerings
include personal protection products, safety and security products, energy
control products, cleaning and protection products for commercial establishment s,
track and trace solutions, and roofing granules for asphalt shingles. In August 2006,
3M completed the acquisition of Security Printing and Systems Limited, a
producer of finished, personalized passports and secure cards, which expanded
the 3M product line related to border and civil security solutions. In April 2008,
3M acquired Aearo Holding Corp., the parent company of Aearo Technologies Inc.
(hereafter referred to as Aearo). Aearo manufactures and sells personal
protection and energy absorbing products, which expanded 3M s platform by
adding hearing protection as well as eyewear and fall protection product lines
to 3M s existing line of respiratory products.  

This segment s products
include certain maintenance-free and reusable respirators, personal protective
equipment, electronic surveillance products, films that protect against
counterfeiting, and reflective materials that are widely used on apparel,
footwear and accessories, enhancing visibility in low-light situations. 3M s
Track and Trace Solutions business utilizes radio frequency identification
(RFID) technology to provide a growing array of solutions   from library patron
self-checkout systems to tracking packages. Other products include
spill-control sorbents; Thinsulate  Insulation and Thinsulate  Lite Loft 
Insulation; 3M  Scotchtint  Window Film for buildings; 3M  Ultra Safety and
Security Window Film for property and personal protection during destructive
weather conditions; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and
commercial cleaning; floor matting; and natural and color-coated mineral
granules for asphalt shingles. In the second quarter of 2008, 3M completed the
sale of its HighJump Software business which provided supply chain execution
software solutions.  

Consumer and Office Business:    The Consumer and Office segment serves
markets that include consumer retail, office retail, home improvement, building
maintenance and other markets. Products in this segment include office supply
products, stationery products, construction and home improvement products, home
care products, protective material products and consumer health care products.  

Major consumer and office
products include Scotch  brand products, such as Scotch  Magic      Tape, Scotch  Glue Stick and Scotch 
Cushioned Mailer; Post-it  Products, such as Post-it  Flags, Post-it  Note
Pads, Post-it  Labeling   Cover-up Tape, and Post-it  Pop-up Notes and
Dispensers; construction and home improvement products, including
surface-preparation and wood-finishing materials, Command  Adhesive Products
and Filtrete  Filters for furnaces and air conditioners; home care products,
including Scotch-Brite  Scour Pads, Scotch-Brite  Scrub Sponges, Scotch-Brite 
Microfiber Cloth products, O-Cel-O  Sponges and Scotchgard  Fabric Protectors;
protective material products; certain maintenance-free respirators; and Nexcare 
Adhesive Bandages.  

Display and Graphics Business:    The Display and Graphics segment serves
markets that include electronic display, traffic safety and commercial
graphics. This segment includes optical film solutions for electronic displays;
computer screen  

4  

Table of Contents   

filters; reflective
sheeting for transportation safety; commercial graphics systems; and projection
systems, including mobile display technology and visual systems products.  

The optical film business
  provides films that serve numerous market segments of the electronic
display industry. 3M provides distinct products for five market segments,
including products for: 1) LCD computer monitors, 2) LCD televisions, 3)
hand-held devices such as cellular phones, 4) notebook PCs and 5) automotive
displays.   Other
optical products include desktop and notebook computer screen filters that
address needs for light control, privacy viewing and glare reduction. In
traffic safety systems, 3M provides reflective sheetings used on highway signs,
vehicle license plates, construction work-zone devices, trucks and other
vehicles, and also provides pavement marking systems. Major commercial graphics
products include films, inks, digital signage systems and related products used
to produce graphics for vehicles and signs. The projection systems business
focuses on bringing technology to the projection market, including mobile display
technology in addition to its visual communication products that serve the
world s office and education markets with overhead projectors and transparency
films, as well as equipment and materials for electronic and multimedia
presentations.  

Electro and Communications
Business:    The
Electro and Communications segment serves the electrical, electronics and
communications industries, including electrical utilities; electrical
construction, maintenance and repair; original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
electrical and electronics; computers and peripherals; consumer electronics;
telecommunications central office, outside plant and enterprise; as well as
aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets; with products that enable
the efficient transmission of electrical power and speed the delivery of
information and ideas. Products include electronic and interconnect solutions,
microinterconnect systems, high-performance fluids, high-temperature and
display tapes, telecommunications products, electrical products, and touch
screens and touch monitors.  

Major electronic and
electrical products include packaging and interconnection devices;
high-performance fluids used in the manufacture of computer chips, and for
cooling electronics and lubricating computer hard disk drives; high-
temperature and display tapes; insulating materials, including
pressure-sensitive tapes and resins; and related items. 3M  Flexible Circuits
use electronic packaging and interconnection technology, providing more
connections in less space, and are used in ink-jet print cartridges, cell
phones and electronic devices. This segment serves the world s
telecommunications companies with a wide array of products for fiber-optic and
copper-based telecommunications systems for rapid deployment in fixed and
wireless networks. The 3M  Aluminum Conductor Composite Reinforced (ACCR)
electrical power cable, with an aluminum-based metal matrix at its core,
increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. The touch systems
business includes touch screens and touch monitors.  

Distribution   

3M products are sold
through numerous distribution channels, including directly to users and through
numerous wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide
variety of trades in many countries around the world. Management believes the
confidence of wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M
and its products   a confidence developed through long association with skilled
marketing and sales representatives   has contributed significantly to 3M s
position in the marketplace and to its growth.  

Research
and Patents   

Research and product
development constitutes an important part of 3M s activities and has been a
major driver of 3M s sales growth. Research, development and related expenses
totaled $1.404 billion in 2008, $1.368 billion in 2007 and $1.522 billion in
2006. The global branded pharmaceuticals business, which was divested in December 2006
and January 2007, incurred research, development and related expenses of
approximately $120 million in 2006. The 2006 amount also included a
$95 million in-process research and development charge (discussed in Note
2) and $75 million in restructuring actions (Note 4). Research and development,
covering basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances
in the development of new and improved products and their uses, totaled $851
million in 2008, $788 million in 2007 and $943 million in 2006. Related
expenses primarily include technical support provided by 3M to customers who
are using existing 3M products, and internally developed patent costs, which
include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file, secure and maintain patents.  

The Company s products
are sold around the world under various trademarks that are important to the
Company. The Company also owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous U.S. and
foreign patents. The Company s research and development activities generate a
steady stream of inventions that are covered by new patents. Patents applicable
to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent
application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various
countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded
by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of
patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the
country.  

5  

Table of Contents   

The Company believes that
its patents provide an important competitive advantage in many of its
businesses. In general, no single patent or group of related patents is in
itself essential to the Company as a whole or to any of the Company s business
segments.  

Raw Materials   

In 2008, the Company experienced cost increases
affecting metals, wood pulp and oil-derived raw materials. To date, the Company
is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its reasonably
foreseeable production requirements. It is impossible to predict future
shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. 3M has
avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful management
of existing raw material inventories and development and qualification of
additional supply sources. 3M manages commodity price risks through negotiated
supply contracts, price protection agreements and forward physical contracts.  

Environmental Law Compliance   

3M s manufacturing operations are affected by
national, state and local environmental laws around the world. 3M has made, and
plans to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable
laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters
from past operations at certain sites (refer to  Environmental and Other
Liabilities and Insurance Receivables  in Note 14, Commitments and
Contingencies).  

Environmental expenditures relating to existing
conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or
future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated
remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable
and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility
studies or the Company s commitment to a plan of action. Environmental
expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future
operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated
useful lives.  

In 2008, 3M expended about $26 million for capital
projects related to protecting the environment. This amount excludes
expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by
past operations that do not contribute to current or future revenues, which are
expensed. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have included
pollution control devices   such as wastewater treatment plant improvements,
scrubbers, containment structures, solvent recovery units and thermal oxidizers
  at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course
of business. Consistent with the Company s policies stressing environmental
responsibility, capital expenditures (other than for remediation projects) for
known projects are presently expected to be about $20 million over the
next two years for new or expanded programs to build facilities or modify
manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.  

While the Company cannot predict with certainty the
future costs of such cleanup activities, capital expenditures or operating
costs for environmental compliance, the Company does not believe they will have
a material effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position.  

6  

Table of Contents   

Executive Officers   

Following is a list of
the executive officers of 3M, and their age, present position, the year elected
to their present position and other positions they have held during the past
five years. No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers
named, nor is there any undisclosed arrangement or understanding pursuant to
which any person was selected as an officer. This information is presented as
of the date of the 10-K filing (February 13, 2009).  

7  

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  Risk
Factors      

Our disclosure and analysis in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain
forward-looking statements that relate to future events and typically address
the Company s expected future business and financial performance based on
certain assumptions. These assumptions and expectations of future events and
trends are subject to risks and uncertainties. Depending on a variety of
factors, actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical
results or those reflected in any such forward-looking statements. Provided
below is a cautionary discussion of what we believe to be the most significant
risk factors applicable to the Company. Discussion of these factors is
incorporated by reference into and considered an integral part of Part II, Item
7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of
Operations.   

* Results
are impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic and capital
markets conditions.   
The Company operates in more than 60 countries and derives approximately 64
percent of its revenues from outside the United States. The Company s business
may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries
that are beyond its control, such as disruptions in financial markets or
downturns in economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the
various industries in which the Company operates; social, political or labor
conditions in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the
availability and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations in
the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  

* The
Company s credit ratings are important to 3M s cost of capital.    
The major rating agencies routinely evaluate the Company s credit
profile and have assigned debt ratings to 3M that are near the top of the
ratings spectrum. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which
include financial strength, business and financial risk, as well as
transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. The
Company has an AA credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard  
Poor s and an Aa1 credit rating, with a negative outlook, from Moody s
Investors Service.  The Company s strong
ratings serve to lower 3M s borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety
of lenders. Failure to maintain the current ratings level could adversely
affect the Company s cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets.  

* The Company s results are
affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences.    Demand for the Company s products, which
impacts revenue and profit margins, is affected by (i) the development and
timing of the introduction of competitive products; (ii) the Company s
response to downward pricing to stay competitive; (iii) changes in
customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained
by customers and the timing of customer purchases which may be affected by
announced price changes, changes in the Company s incentive programs, or the
customer s ability to achieve incentive goals; and (iv) changes in
customers  preferences for our products, including the success of products
offered by our competitors, and changes in customer designs for their products
that can affect the demand for some of the Company s products.  

* Foreign
currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates may affect the Company s
ability to realize projected growth rates in its sales and earnings.    Because the Company s financial
statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately 64 percent of the
Company s revenues are derived from outside the United States, the Company s
results of operations and its ability to realize projected growth rates in
sales and earnings could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens
significantly against foreign currencies.  

* The
Company s growth objectives are largely dependent on the timing and market
acceptance of its new product offerings, including its ability to continually
renew its pipeline of new products and to bring those products to market.    This ability may be adversely affected
by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to
identify viable new products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection,
or gain market acceptance of new products. There are no guarantees that new
products will prove to be commercially successful.  

* The
Company s future results are subject to fluctuations in the costs and
availability of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy,
including oil and natural gas and their derivatives, due to shortages,
increased demand, supply interruptions, currency exchange risks, natural
disasters and other factors.    The Company depends on various components, compounds,
raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives)
supplied by others for the manufacturing of its products. It is possible that
any of its supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural and other
disasters and other events, or be terminated in the future. Any sustained
interruption in the Company s receipt of adequate supplies could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, while the Company has a
process to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, no assurance
can be given that the Company will be able to successfully manage price
fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or shortages will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company.  

* Acquisitions,
strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from
portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and
possible organizational restructuring could affect future results.    The Company monitors its business
portfolio and organizational structure and has made and may continue to make
acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures and changes to its
organizational structure. With respect to acquisitions, future results will be
affected by the Company s ability to integrate acquired businesses quickly and
obtain the anticipated synergies.  

* The
Company s future results may be affected if the Company generates fewer
productivity improvements than estimated.    The Company utilizes various tools, such as Lean Six
Sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. There can be no
assurance that all of the projected productivity improvements will be realized.  

* The
Company s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings,
including those involving product liability, antitrust, environmental or other
matters.    The
outcome of these legal proceedings may differ from the Company s expectations
because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often
difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead the
Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance
receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not
susceptible of reasonable  

8  

Table of Contents   

estimates, such as
a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement,
significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future
adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in future
charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
operations or cash flows in any particular period. For a more detailed
discussion of the legal proceedings involving the Company and the associated
accounting estimates, see the discussion in Note 14.  

Item 1B.  Unresolved
Staff Comments.      

None.  

Item 2.  Properties.      

3M s general
offices, corporate research laboratories, and certain division laboratories are
located in St. Paul, Minnesota. The Company operates 82 manufacturing
facilities in 29 states. The Company operates 102 manufacturing and converting
facilities in 35 countries outside the United States.  

3M owns substantially all
of its physical properties. 3M s physical facilities are highly suitable for
the purposes for which they were designed. Because 3M is a global enterprise
characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, properties are often
used by multiple business segments.  

Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings.      

Discussion of legal
matters is incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 8, Note 14,  Commitments
and Contingencies,  of this document, and should be considered an integral part
of Part I, Item 3,  Legal Proceedings.   

Item 4.  Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.      

None in the quarter ended
December 31, 2008.  

PART II     

Item 5.  Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities.      

Equity
compensation plans  information is incorporated by reference from Part III,
Item 12,  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters,  of this document, and should be considered an integral
part of Item 5. At January 30, 2009, there were 116,366 shareholders of
record. 3M s stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (NYSE),
the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., and the SWX Swiss Exchange. Cash
dividends declared and paid totaled $.50 per share for each quarter of 2008,    and $.48 per share for each quarter of
2007. Stock price comparisons follow:  

Stock price comparisons (NYSE
composite transactions)   

9  

Table of Contents   

Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities   

Repurchases of
common stock are made to support the Company s stock-based employee
compensation plans and for other corporate purposes. In February 2007, 3M s
Board of Directors authorized a two-year share repurchase of up to $7.0 billion
for the period from February 12, 2007 to February 28, 2009. In February 2009,
3M s Board of Directors extended this share repurchase authorization until the
remaining $2.6 billion (as of December 31, 2008) is fully utilized.  

Issuer Purchases of Equity   

   Securities (registered pursuant to   

   Section 12 of the Exchange Act)   

(1) The total
number of shares purchased includes: (i) shares purchased under the Board s
authorizations described above, and (ii) shares purchased in connection
with the exercise of stock options (which totaled 5,112 shares in January 2008,
80,160 shares in February 2008, 26,550 shares in March 2008,
45,830 shares in April 2008, 67,900 shares in May 2008,
5,469 shares in June 2008, 7,371 shares in July 2008, 10,395
shares in August 2008, 918 shares in September 2008,
8,338 shares in October 2008, 6,196 shares in November 2008, and
4,163 shares in December 2008).  

10  

Table of
Contents   

Item 6.  Selected
Financial Data.      

The above income and
earnings per share information exclude a cumulative effect of accounting change
in 2005 ($35 million, or 5 cents per diluted share). Refer to Note 1
(conditional asset retirement obligations accounting policy) for more detail.  

Items included in the
preceding table which had a significant impact on results are summarized as
follows. 2008 results included net losses that decreased operating income by
$269 million and net income by $194 million. 2008 included restructuring actions
($229 million pre-tax, $147 million after-tax and minority interest), exit
activities ($58 million pre-tax, $43 million after-tax) and losses related to
the sale of businesses ($23 million pre-tax, $32 million after-tax), which were
partially offset by a gain on sale of real estate ($41 million pre-tax, $28
million after-tax). 2007 results included net gains that increased operating
income by $681 million and net income by $448 million. 2007 included gains
related to the sale of businesses ($849 million pre-tax, $550 million
after-tax) and a gain on sale of real estate ($52 million pre-tax, $37 million
after-tax), which were partially offset by increases in environmental
liabilities ($134 million pre-tax, $83 million after-tax), restructuring
actions ($41 million pre-tax, $27 million after-tax), and exit activities ($45
million pre-tax, $29 million after-tax).   2006 results included net
gains that increased operating income by $523 million and net income by $438
million.   2006
included net benefits from gains related to the sale of certain portions of 3M s
branded pharmaceuticals business ($1.074 billion pre-tax, $674 million
after-tax) and favorable income tax adjustments ($149 million), which were
partially offset by restructuring actions ($403 million pre-tax, $257 million
after-tax), acquired in-process research and development expenses ($95 million
pre-tax and after-tax), settlement costs of an antitrust class action ($40
million pre-tax, $25 million after-tax), and environmental obligations related
to the pharmaceuticals business ($13 million pre-tax, $8 million
after-tax). 2005 results included charges that reduced income before cumulative
effect of accounting change by $75 million. This related to a tax liability
resulting from 3M s reinvestment of approximately $1.7 billion of foreign
earnings in the United States pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  

11  

Table of
Contents   

Item 7.  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(MD A) is designed to provide a reader of 3M s financial statements with a
narrative from the perspective of management. 3M s MD A is presented in
nine sections:  

Beginning page   

Overview  

12  

Results of Operations  

16  

Performance by Business
  Segment  

19  

Performance by
  Geographic Area  

29  

Critical Accounting
  Estimates  

30  

New Accounting
  Pronouncements  

32  

Financial Condition and
  Liquidity  

32  

Financial Instruments  

38  

Forward-Looking
  Statements  

38  

OVERVIEW   

3M is a diversified
global manufacturer, technology innovator and marketer of a wide variety of
products. As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
effective in the first quarter of 2008, 3M made certain product moves between
its business segments. The financial information presented herein reflects the
impact of these changes for all periods presented. 3M manages its operations in
six operating business segments: Industrial and Transportation; Health Care;
Safety, Security and Protection Services; Consumer and Office; Display and
Graphics; and Electro and Communications.  

3M had record
sales in 2008 despite a dramatic fourth-quarter 2008 economic downturn. 3M is
responding to this lower demand with aggressive cost and cash management, along
with tighter operational discipline. 3M expects to manage through these
worldwide market challenges and is positioning itself to benefit when growth
returns. 3M streamlined its operations through 2008 and will continue to
optimize to protect against the downside throughout 2009. In the fourth quarter
of 2008 alone, 3M announced reductions of over 2,400 full-time positions
worldwide, which brought total year reductions to approximately 3,500. These
job eliminations spanned all sectors and all geographies, but were particularly
focused on those developed economies experiencing the most sales pressure. In
addition, 3M has furloughed factory workers until production volumes return to
more normal levels and contract workers are also being reduced to only those
considered essential. These 2008 actions in total are expected to save the
Company $250 to $300 million in 2009. 3M also decided to defer merit pay
increases in 2009 except in those cases where local laws prohibit it, with
estimated cost-avoidance of approximately $100 million in 2009. In addition, 3M
has amended its practice on banked vacation   effectively phasing it out  
which will reduce expenses by an estimated $100 million in both 2009 and 2010.  

While
this market is difficult to predict, in 2009 for planning purposes, 3M is
assuming year-on-year declines in organic sales volume, negative foreign
currency impacts on sales, operating margin declines, and earnings per share
declines.   3M will
work to conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by more than 30 percent
in 2009 and by focusing on reducing working capital. 3M has halted stock
repurchases until the credit market offers more visibility. T  he strength of
3M s customer focused diversified business and technology platforms, unparalled
geographic reach, and relentless attention to operational excellence, along
with 3M s balance sheet strength, provide a strong foundation for stability and
consistency in an uncertain global economy.  

For the three months ended December 31, 2008, sales decreased 11.2
percent compared to the same period last year, due to an increasingly
challenging global economy. Local currency sales (which include volume, selling
price and acquisition impacts, but exclude divestiture and translation impacts)
increased in Safety, Security and Protection Services and in Health Care. Sales
in local currencies for the other four business segments dropped during the
fourth quarter. Fourth quarter 2008 net income was $536 million, or $0.77 per
diluted share, compared to $851 million, or $1.17 per diluted share in the
fourth quarter of 2007. In response to difficult economic conditions, in the
fourth-quarter of 2008, 3M took actions which resulted in net pre-tax charges
of $219 million for restructuring actions and exit activities, which reduced
net income by $140 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, as 3M aggressively
balanced its cost structure to a slower growth environment. The fourth quarter
of 2007 included net pre-tax charges of $20 million related to restructuring,
exit activities and a loss on sale of businesses, which reduced net income by $12
million, or $0.02 per diluted share. Refer to the  Special Items  summary at
the end of this overview section for more detail on these items that impacted
results.  

For total year 2008,
sales increased 3.3 percent to $25.3 billion, with local-currency sales up 1.4
percent. Operating income margins were 20.6 percent, including restructuring
and other items that negatively impacted operating income by $269 million, or
1.1 percentage points. In addition to the fourth quarter items noted in the
preceding paragraph, refer to the  Special Items  summary at the end of this
overview section for discussion of other items impacting   

12  

Table of Contents   

results. In 2008,
restructuring and other special items negatively impacted net income by $194
million, or $0.28 per diluted share. In 2007, the largest special item was the
gain on sale of businesses, primarily the global branded pharmaceuticals
business in Europe, which, combined with other items, benefited 2007 net income
by $448 million, or $0.62 per diluted share. Including these special items, 3M
reported net income of $3.460 billion, or $4.89 per diluted share for 2008,
compared to net income of $4.096 billion, or $5.60 per diluted share, for 2007.  

In December 2006
and January 2007, 3M completed the sale of its branded pharmaceuticals
business, resulting in gains in the fourth quarter of 2006 and first quarter of
2007. In addition, 3M recorded a gain related to the sale of its Opticom
Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection businesses in the second
quarter of 2007. In both 2007 and 2006, these gains on sale of businesses were
partially offset by restructuring and the net impact of other special items.
Refer to  Special Items  at the end of this overview section for additional
details. Including these special items, in 2007, 3M reported net sales of
$24.462 billion and net income of $4.096 billion, or $5.60 per diluted share, compared
with net sales of $22.923 billion and net income of $3.851 billion, or $5.06
per diluted share, in 2006. Excluding the special items in both years, the
Company still achieved strong underlying operating performance, helped by a 6.7
percent increase in net sales, which included the divestiture impacts discussed
above that reduced sales growth by 3.8 percent.  

The following
table contains sales and operating income results by business segment for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Refer to the Performance by
Business Segment section for discussion of the gain or loss on sale of
businesses, restructuring and other items that impacted reported operating
income results.  

In 2008, worldwide sales growth was broad-based, with five of six
segments experiencing sales growth for the year. Safety, Security and
Protection Services sales growth was led by acquisitions, primarily Aearo, along
with organic growth in personal protection solutions, protective window films
and cleaning solutions for commercial buildings, and RFID solutions (Track and
Trace). Geographic area sales growth in this business segment was strong in
every region, helped by Aearo, with organic sales growth led by Asia Pacific
and Latin America. Health Care sales growth was strongest in orthodontics,
dental and medical, with positive sales growth in all major geographies, led by
Asia Pacific and Latin America. Industrial and Transportation had broad-based
sales growth across the portfolio and all major geographies, with strong sales
growth in industrial adhesives and tapes, automotive aftermarket, abrasives,
and closure systems for personal hygiene products. Sales in Consumer and Office
were led by the home care and do-it-yourself markets, with sales growth
geographically led by Asia Pacific and Latin America. Consumer and Office
experienced weakness in 2008 as slowdowns in the U.S. office markets and
residential housing markets persist. Electro and Communications sales growth
was led by electrical markets and electronic markets materials, with geographic
sales growth strongest in Asia Pacific and Latin America. The electronics
solutions and communications markets businesses remain soft. 3M also continued
to experience declines in the flexible circuits business, where a number of
product solutions are going end-of-life. Within Display and Graphics, positive
sales growth in Traffic Safety Systems and Commercial Graphics was more than
offset by lower sales in Optical Systems. Optical Systems sales were down 34
percent when compared to 2007, resulting in a sales decline for total Display
and Graphics of 16.6 percent. Selling price and attachment rate pressure remain
intense in segments of the LCD market as OEMs aggressively pursue cost
reductions from their component suppliers, including 3M. In addition, demand
dropped significantly in November and December of 2008 as numerous
orders were canceled for large-size LCD panels due to weak holiday season
sales, reflecting the global downturn in consumer and corporate demand. Refer
to the Performance by Business Segment section for a more detailed discussion
of the results of the respective segments.  

13  

Table of Contents   

Worldwide total sales
growth was 3.3 percent in 2008. Local-currency sales growth was 1.4 percent for
2008, including a 3.3 percentage point benefit from acquisitions.
Local-currency sales increased 18.3 percent in Safety, Security and Protection
Services (including 14.1 percentage points from acquisitions), 6.8 percent in
Health Care (including 1.7 percentage points from acquisitions) and 4.6 percent
in Industrial and Transportation (including 3.9 percentage points from
acquisitions). Local-currency sales declined 0.3 percent in Consumer and
Office, 1.7 percent in Electro and Communications and 17.9 percent in Display
and Graphics.  

In 2007, worldwide total
sales increased 6.7 percent. Local-currency sales growth was 7.3 percent, with
organic local-currency growth of 4.9 percent (including 0.7 percentage point
benefit from pharmaceuticals supply agreements) and acquisitions adding 2.4
percent. Divestitures, primarily the sale of the global branded pharmaceuticals
business (Health Care segment), decreased worldwide sales growth by 3.8
percent. The sale of the pharmaceuticals business was not presented as a
discontinued operation due to the extent of the projected continuing cash flows
from 3M s contractual supply relationship with the buyers in relation to those
of the business that was sold.  

Geographically, Latin
America and Canada led local-currency sales growth in 2008, with a combined
increase of 12.8 percent, followed by Europe, Middle East and Africa (hereafter
referred to as Europe) with a 2.8 percent increase and the United States with a
2.7 percent increase. Local-currency sales in Asia Pacific declined 5.9
percent. Asia Pacific was negatively impacted by Optical Systems sales, which
were down 34 percent in that region. Excluding Optical Systems, Asia Pacific
sales increased nearly 6 percent on a local-currency basis. Of the
local-currency sales growth, acquisitions contributed 3.2 percent to the combined
Latin America and Canada, 3.2 percent to Europe, 5.3 percent to the United
States, and 0.8 percent to Asia Pacific. Foreign currency translation
positively impacted international sales by 3.4 percent, as the U.S. dollar
weakened in aggregate against many currencies in these geographic areas.
Foreign currency translation positively impacted Latin America and Canada by
2.4 percent, Europe by 4.0 percent and Asia Pacific by 3.2 percent. In the
fourth quarter of 2008, foreign currency negatively impacted international
sales by 7.5 percent. While difficult to predict given the current exchange
rate volatility, foreign currency is also expected to have a significant
negative impact in 2009.  

Worldwide operating
income for 2008 decreased 15.7 percent year-on-year, with most of this impact
due to the year-on-year change in special items discussed at the end of this
overview. In the preceding table, Health Care operating income in 2007 included
significant gains related to the sale of portions of its pharmaceuticals
business in 2007, negatively impacting the 2008 versus 2007 year-on-year
comparisons for this business segment. Worldwide operating income margins were
20.6 percent in 2008, including a 1.1 percent penalty from special items in
2008. Operating income for 2007 increased 8.7 percent year-on-year, including a
net 2.2 percentage point benefit from the impact of items discussed in  Special
Items  below. Operating income margins were approximately 25 percent in both
2007 and 2006, with special items positively impacting these margins in both
years by approximately 2.5 percentage points.  

3M generated $4.533
billion of operating cash flow in 2008, an increase of $258 million compared to
2007, which followed an increase of $436 million when comparing 2007 to 2006.
In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company utilized approximately $1.4 billion of cash
each year to pay dividends. In 2008, repurchases of 3M common stock totaled
approximately $1.6 billion, compared to $3.2 billion in 2007 and $2.4 billion
in 2006. In February 2007, 3M s Board of Directors authorized a two-year
share repurchase of up to $7.0 billion for the period from February 12,
2007 to February 28, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, approximately
$2.6 billion remained available for repurchase. In February 2009, 3M s
Board of Directors extended this share repurchase authorization until the
remaining $2.6 billion is fully utilized. With the Company s current emphasis
on maintaining ample liquidity and enhancing balance sheet strength, share
repurchase activity has been suspended. However, extension of this program will
provide flexibility to resume repurchase activity when business conditions
permit. In February 2009, 3M s Board of Directors authorized a dividend
increase of 2 percent for 2009, marking the 51st consecutive year of dividend
increases for 3M. 3M s debt to total capital ratio (total capital defined as
debt plus equity) at December 31, 2008 was 40 percent, compared to 30
percent at December 31, 2007. A portion of the increase in debt was the
result of a strategy to build and maintain a cash buffer in the U.S. in the
current market environment. 3M has an AA credit rating from Standard  
Poor s, with a stable outlook, and an Aa1 credit rating from Moody s Investors
Service, with a negative outlook. The Company has sufficient access to capital
markets to meet currently anticipated growth and acquisition investment funding
needs.  

In 2008, the Company experienced cost increases
affecting metals, wood pulp and oil-derived raw materials. To date the Company
is receiving sufficient quantities of all raw materials to meet its reasonably
foreseeable production requirements. It is impossible to predict future
shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. 3M has
avoided disruption to its manufacturing operations through careful management
of existing raw material inventories and development and qualification of
additional supply sources. 3M manages commodity price risks through negotiated
supply contracts, price protection agreements and forward physical contracts.  

14  

Table of Contents   

In 2009, 3M is changing its annual stock option and
restricted stock unit grant date to more closely align the award with the
timing of the Company s performance review process. In 2009 and forward, under
the annual grant, 3M will grant shares in February instead of May as in
previous years. Accounting rules requires recognition of expense under a
non-substantive vesting period approach, requiring compensation expense
recognition when an employee is eligible to retire. 3M employees in the United
States are eligible to retire at age 55 and after having completed five years
of service. Approximately 25 percent of the stock-based compensation award
expense dollars are for this retiree-eligible population. Therefore, in 2006,
2007 and 2008 the second quarter of each year (because of the May grant
date) reflected higher stock-based compensation expense than the other
quarters. In 2009, the retiree-eligible impact will shift to the first quarter
of 2009. In addition, both the first and second quarter of 2009 will reflect
accelerated stock-based compensation expense related to the earlier February
grant date. These and other factors result in a first quarter 2009 estimate of
$0.08 per diluted share for stock-based compensation expense compared to $0.04
in the first quarter of 2008. In the second quarter of 2009 estimated
stock-based compensation is estimated at $0.04 per diluted share compared to
$0.06 in the second quarter of 2008. Refer to Note 16 for additional discussion
of the Company s stock-based compensation programs.  

During 2008 the funded
status of the Company s global pension plans declined from 100 percent to 85
percent. As of December 31, 2008, the U.S. pension plans  funded status
was 89 percent with the qualified plan at 92 percent, and the international
plans at 75 percent. By utilizing an effective hedging strategy for both fixed
income and equity investments, the Company was able to limit the decline in
U.S. pension plan s assets to a negative 13.6% return in 2008, much better than
the overall market. In 2009, the Company expects to contribute an amount in the
range of $600 million to $850 million to its U.S. and international pension
plans. The Company does not have a required minimum pension contribution
obligation for its U.S. plans in 2009. The changes in 3M s defined benefit
pension and postretirement plans  funded status, which are required to be
measured as of each year-end, significantly impacted several balance sheet line
amounts at December 31, 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, these
required annual measurements decreased prepaid pension benefits  assets by $1.7
billion, increased deferred taxes within other assets by $1.1 billion,
increased pension and postretirement benefits  long-term liabilities by $1.7
billion and decreased stockholders  equity (reflected after taxes) by $2.3
billion. Other pension and postretirement changes during the year, such as
contributions and amortization, also impacted these balance sheet captions.
Refer to critical accounting estimates within MD A and Note 11 (Pension and
Postretirement Benefit Plans) for additional information concerning 3M s
pension and post-retirement plans.  

The preceding
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
results to differ materially from those projected (refer to the forward-looking
statements section in Item 7 and the risk factors provided in Item 1A for
discussion of these risks and uncertainties).  

Special
Items:  

Special
items represent significant charges or credits that are important to
understanding changes in the Company s underlying operations.  

In 2008, net losses for
restructuring and other actions decreased operating income by $269 million and
net income by $194 million, or $0.28 per diluted share. 2008 included
restructuring actions ($229 million pre-tax, $147 million after-tax and
minority interest), exit activities ($58 million pre-tax, $43 million
after-tax) and losses related to the sale of businesses ($23 million pre-tax,
$32 million after-tax), which were partially offset by a gain on sale of real
estate ($41 million pre-tax, $28 million after-tax). Divestiture impacts,
restructuring actions and exit activities are discussed in more detail in Note
2 (Acquisitions and Divestitures) and Note 4 (Restructuring Actions and Exit
Activities). Concerning the real estate gain, 3M received proceeds and recorded
a gain in 2008 for a sale-leaseback transaction relative to an administrative
location in Italy. 3M anticipates leasing back the facility through late 2009
at which time a new location will be utilized.  

In
2007, gains on sale of businesses and real estate, net of restructuring and
other items, increased operating income by $681 million and net income by $448
million, or $0.62 per diluted share. 2007 included   net benefits from gains related to the sale of
businesses ($849 million pre-tax, $550 million after-tax) and a gain on sale of
real estate ($52 million pre-tax, $37 million after-tax), which were partially
offset by increases in environmental liabilities ($134 million pre-tax, $83
million after-tax), restructuring actions ($41 million pre-tax, $27 million
after-tax), and other exit activities ($45 million pre-tax, $29 million
after-tax). These items, except the gain on sale of real estate, are discussed
in more detail in Note 2 (Acquisitions and Divestitures), Note 4 (Restructuring
Actions and Exit Activities) and Note 14 (Commitments and Contingencies). Gains
on sale of businesses include the second-quarter 2007 sale of 3M s Opticom
Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection businesses, and the
first-quarter 2007 sale of the global branded pharmaceuticals business in
Europe. Concerning the real estate sale, 3M sold a laboratory facility located
in Suwon, Korea.  

15  

Table of Contents   

In
2006, gains on sale of businesses, net of restructuring and other items,
increased operating income by $523 million and net income by $438 million, or
$0.57 per diluted share.   2006 included net benefits from gains related to the sale of certain
portions of 3M s branded pharmaceuticals business ($1.074 billion pre-tax, $674
million after-tax) and favorable income tax adjustments ($149 million), which
were partially offset by restructuring actions ($403 million pre-tax,
$257 million after-tax), acquired in-process research and development
expenses ($95 million pre-tax and after-tax), settlement costs of an antitrust
class action ($40 million pre-tax, $25 million after-tax), and environmental
obligations related to the pharmaceuticals business ($13 million pre-tax, $8
million after-tax). These items, except the settlement costs and environmental
obligations, are discussed in more detail in Note 2 (Acquisitions and
Divestitures), Note 4 (Restructuring Actions and Exit Activities) and Note 8
(Income Taxes). Concerning settlement costs, the Company recorded $40 million
in 2006 with respect to a settlement in principle related to the antitrust
class action brought on behalf of direct purchasers who did not purchase
private label tape. Concerning environmental obligations, the Company increased
its reserves by $13 million during 2006 for estimated environmental remediation
costs at a European pharmaceutical plant.  

RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS   

Net
Sales:    

In 2008, local-currency sales growth of 1.4 percent was led
by the Safety, Security and Protection Services; Health Care; and Industrial
and Transportation segments. Acquisitions increased 2008 sales by 3.3 percent,
led by the April 2008 acquisition of Aearo. In 2007, local-currency sales
growth of 7.3 percent was led by the Health Care; Safety, Security and
Protection Services; Industrial and Transportation and Consumer and Office
segments. Acquisitions increased 2007 sales by 2.4 percent, led by the August 2006
acquisition of Security Printing and Systems Limited and the late 2006
acquisitions of Softmed Systems Inc. and Biotrace International PLC. Refer to
both the  Performance by Business Segment  and  Performance by Geographic Area 
sections for additional discussion of sales change.  

Operating Expenses:    

As discussed in
the preceding overview section, in 2008 the combination of restructuring
actions, exit activities and a loss on sale of businesses, partially offset by
a gain on sale of real estate, decreased operating income by $269 million, or
1.1 percent of net sales. In 2007, the gain on sale of businesses and real
estate, net of environmental liability charges, restructuring and exit
activities, benefited 2007 operating income by $681 million, or 2.8 percent of
net sales. In 2006, the gain on sale of businesses, net of restructuring and other items,
benefited 2006 operating income by $523 million, or 2.2 percent of net sales. The
following tables summarize these items by operating expense category. Items
included in the  Other  category of the table for 2006 are acquired in-process
research and development expenses ($95 million), settlement costs of a
antitrust class action ($40 million), and environmental obligations related to
the pharmaceuticals business ($13 million).  

16  

Table of Contents   

Cost of Sales:    

Cost of sales includes manufacturing, engineering and freight costs.
Cost of sales as a percent of net sales increased 0.8 percentage points in 2008
compared to 2007, with this increase primarily due to the decline in Optical
Systems sales and the rapid volume declines of certain other businesses in the
fourth quarter. For the majority of the year 3M s broad-based portfolio
performed as expected, with benefits from selling price increases, foreign
currency translation, and a continuous focus on driving operational excellence,
helping to offset raw material inflation of approximately 4 percent for 2008,
compared with 2007. In 2008, restructuring and exit costs increased cost of
sales by $122 million, or 0.4 percentage points as a percent of net sales, similar
to the 0.3 percentage point impact in 2007, as discussed below.  

Cost of sales as a
percent of net sales increased 1.0 percentage point in 2007 compared to 2006,
with this increase primarily due to the sale of the branded pharmaceuticals
business, which had lower than average cost of sales. Raw material costs
increased approximately 1 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. In 2007,
restructuring and exit costs increased cost of sales by $64 million, or 0.3
percentage points. These charges primarily related to the consolidation of
certain flexible circuit manufacturing operations, the phaseout of operations
at the Company s New Jersey roofing granule facility and charges related to the
Company s decision to close an Electro and Communications facility in
Wisconsin. In 2006, restructuring and other items increased cost of sales by
$143 million, or 0.7 percentage points.  

17  

Table of Contents   

Selling,
General and Administrative Expenses:    

Selling, general
and administrative (SG A) expenses as a percent of net sales increased 0.3
percentage points in 2008 when compared to 2007, or 4.6 percent in dollars. In
2008, SG A expenses related to restructuring actions and exit activities
were partially offset by a gain on sale of real estate, which combined
increased SG A by $111 million, or 0.5 percentage points, similar to the
0.4 percentage point impact in 2007, as discussed below. In the fourth quarter
of 2008, as part of its restructuring program, 3M took aggressive actions to
reduce general and administrative expenses and also pared back selling and
marketing costs in certain businesses.   

SG A expenses
as a percent of net sales decreased 1.6 percentage points in 2007 when compared
to 2006, as expenses incurred in 2006 in the Company s now-divested global
branded pharmaceuticals business did not repeat in 2007. Non-pharmaceutical
ongoing SG A expenses, after adjusting for the following items, were up
approximately 7 percent in dollars, as the Company invested in sales and
marketing to support growth markets. In 2007, SG A includes increases in
environmental liabilities, restructuring charges and exit activities, net of
the gain on sale of real estate ($108 million combined net expense), which
increased SG A as a percent of sales by 0.4 percentage points. 2006
included restructuring actions and settlement costs of a previously disclosed
antitrust class action ($238 million combined expense), which increased 2006
SG A as a percent of sales by 1.0 percentage points. In dollars, SG A
decreased $51 million when comparing 2007 to 2006, with the change in restructuring
and other items year-on-year decreasing SG A by $130 million,
pharmaceutical SG A spending decreasing $241 million and other SG A
spending increasing $320 million, or approximately 7 percent in dollars.  

Research, Development and Related Expenses:    

Research,
development and related expenses (R D) in 2008 as a percent of net sales
was 5.6 percent, the same as in 2007, while spending in dollars increased. 3M s
long-term commitment to R D is unchanged, but in the current economic
environment 3M is closely scrutinizing all discretionary investments.  

R D as a
percent of net sales decreased 1.0 percentage point in 2007 when compared to
2006, as expenses incurred in 2006 in the Company s now-divested
R D-intensive pharmaceuticals business did not repeat in 2007. Non-pharmaceutical
ongoing R D expenses, after adjusting for the following items, were up
approximately 11 percent in dollars, as the Company invested in future
technologies and growth opportunities. 2006 spending included a $95 million
in-process research and development charge (discussed in Note 2) and $75
million in restructuring actions (Note 4), which increased 2006 R D as a
percent of sales by 0.7 percentage points. In dollars, R D spending
decreased $154 million when comparing 2007 to 2006, with the change in
restructuring and other items year-on-year decreasing R D by $174 million,
2006 pharmaceutical SG A spending decreasing $120 million and other R D
spending increasing $140 million, or approximately 11 percent in dollars.  

(Gain)/Loss on Sale of Businesses:    

In June 2008, 3M completed the sale of HighJump Software, a 3M
Company, to Battery Ventures, a technology venture capital and private equity
firm. 3M received proceeds of $85 million for this transaction and recognized,
net of assets sold, transaction and other costs, a pre-tax loss of $23 million
(recorded in the Safety, Security and Protection Services segment) in the
second quarter of 2008.  

In January 2007,
3M completed the sale of its global branded pharmaceuticals business in Europe
to Meda AB. 3M received proceeds of $817 million for this transaction and
recognized, net of assets sold, a pre-tax gain of $781 million in 2007
(recorded in the Health Care segment). In June 2007, 3M completed the sale
of its Opticom Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection businesses
to TorQuest Partners Inc., a Toronto-based investment firm. 3M received
proceeds of $80 million for this transaction and recognized, net of assets
sold, transaction and other costs, a pre-tax gain of $68 million (recorded in
the Display and Graphics segment) in 2007.  

In December 2006,
3M completed the sale of its global branded pharmaceuticals businesses in the
United States, Canada, and Latin America region and the Asia Pacific region,
including Australia and South Africa. 3M received proceeds of $1.209 billion
for these transactions and recognized a pre-tax gain on sale of $1.074 billion
in 2006 (recorded in the Health Care segment). For more detail, refer to Note
2.  

Operating Income:    

3M uses operating
income as one of its primary business segment performance measurement tools.
Operating income decreased in 2008 to 20.6 percent of sales, negatively
impacted by restructuring actions, exit activities and a loss on sale of
businesses that were partially offset by a gain on sale of real estate, which
combined decreased operating income by 1.1 percentage points ($269 million).
Operating income margins of 25.3 percent in 2007 were positively impacted by
2.8 percentage points ($681 million) from the gain on sale of businesses and
real estate, net of environmental liabilities, restructuring and other exit
activities. Operating income margins of 24.8 percent for 2006 were positively
impacted by 2.2 percentage points ($523 million) from the gain on sale of
portions of the pharmaceuticals business, net of restructuring and other
actions. Adjusting for the preceding items, operating income margins in 2007
were similar to 2006.  

18  

Table of
Contents   

Interest Expense and Income:    

Interest
Expense   :   Interest expense
increased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily related to higher
average U.S. and international long-term debt balances, which were partially
offset by lower short-term debt balances and interest rates.   Interest expense increased in 2007
compared to 2006, primarily due to higher average debt balances and higher
interest rates.  

Interest
Income:       Interest income
was lower in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to lower interest rates,
which were partially offset by higher average cash and cash equivalent balances.
  Interest income
increased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher average cash, cash
equivalent and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates.  

Provision for Income Taxes:    

The effective tax rate for 2008 was 31.1 percent compared with 32.1
percent in 2007. The Company s 2008 tax rate benefited from reduced
international tax rates. The tax rate for 2007 was 32.1 percent compared with
30.6 percent in 2006. The Company s 2006 tax rate included benefits from
adjustments to its reserves for tax contingencies following the settlement of
income tax audits.   Refer to Note 8 for additional information.  

Minority Interest:    

Minority interest
expense eliminates the income or loss attributable to non-3M ownership
interests in 3M consolidated entities. 3M s most significant consolidated
entity with non-3M ownership interests is Sumitomo 3M Limited in Japan (3M owns
75 percent of Sumitomo 3M Limited).  

Currency Effects:    

3M estimates that
year-on-year currency effects, including hedging impacts, increased net income
by approximately $160 million in 2008, $150 million in 2007 and $20 million in
2006. This estimate includes the effect of translating profits from local
currencies into U.S. dollars; the impact of currency fluctuations on the
transfer of goods between 3M operations in the United States and abroad; and
transaction gains and losses, including derivative instruments designed to
reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks other than instruments hedging
foreign currency risks on tax obligations. 3M estimates that year-on-year
derivative and other transaction gains and losses increased net income by
approximately $40 million in 2008, increased net income by approximately $10
million in 2007 and had an immaterial impact on net income in 2006.  

PERFORMANCE
BY BUSINESS SEGMENT   

Disclosures relating to 3M s business segments are
provided in Item 1, Business Segments. Financial information and other
disclosures are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective in
the first quarter of 2008, 3M made certain product moves between its business
segments in its continuing effort to drive growth by aligning businesses around
markets and customers. Segment information presented herein reflects the impact
of these changes for all periods presented. The reportable segments are the
Industrial and Transportation segment; the Health Care segment; Safety,
Security and Protection Services segment; Consumer and Office segment; Display
and Graphics segment; and Electro and Communications segment. Information related
to 3M s business segments is presented in the tables that follow.
Local-currency sales (which include both core and acquisition volume impacts,
plus price impacts) are provided for each segment. The divestiture impact,
translation impact and total sales change are also provided for each segment.  

19  

Table of Contents   

As discussed in
the preceding overview and results of operations section, the combination of
restructuring actions, gains and losses on the sale of businesses, and other
special items significantly impacted 2008, 2007 and 2006 results. The
following tables summarize these special items by business segment.  

20  

Table of Contents   

Due to the significant impact of the economic
downturn in the fourth-quarter of 2008 on sales and operating income results,
the following discusses both fourth-quarter 2008 and total year 2008 results
for each business segment.  

Industrial
and Transportation Business (30.9% of consolidated sales):    

The Industrial and
Transportation segment serves a broad range of markets, such as appliance,
paper and packaging, food and beverage, electronics, automotive original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) and automotive aftermarket (auto body shops and
retail). Industrial and Transportation products include tapes, a wide variety
of coated and non-woven abrasives, adhesives, specialty materials, filtration
products, closure systems for personal hygiene products, and components and
products that are used in the manufacture, repair and maintenance of
automotive, marine, aircraft and specialty vehicles.  

2008 can be
characterized as a tale of two distinct chapters for Industrial and
Transportation. The first was January through October, characterized by
outstanding top-and bottom-line growth across most of the portfolio; the second
chapter was the combined months of November and December, when many large
customers slowed their operations. 3M expects that the strength of its new
products, supply chain improvements and expansion into areas like energy,
aerospace, filtration and now renewable energy, will help carry it through some
very challenging times.  

Among 3M s
business segments, Industrial and Transportation has been among those most
affected by recent economic contractions, particularly in big industries such
as automotive and electronics. With worldwide industrial production in decline,
3M s Industrial and Transportation business had fourth quarter 2008 sales of
$1.7 billion, an 11.3 percent decline compared to 2007. Local-currency sales
were down 6.3 percent, including a positive 3.2 percent impact from
acquisitions. Not all divisions within Industrial were impacted equally in the
fourth quarter. Those that are heavily linked to automotive manufacturing,
namely automotive OEM and 3M Dyneon, saw declines of more than 20 percent, as
did businesses selling to the electronics industry, such as high-tech tapes and
adhesives. Most other divisions experienced local-currency sales contractions
of less than 10 percent in the fourth quarter. The most significant bright spot
in the quarter was the automotive aftermarket business, which contributed solid
local-currency growth. Geographically, fourth quarter 2008 local-currency sales
were down in all regions, with the largest declines in the U.S. and Asia
Pacific, followed by Europe. Local-currency sales were flat in Latin America.
Operating income in the fourth quarter declined 42 percent to $203 million,
which included net charges of $36 million for restructuring actions and exit
activities.  

Full-year 2008
sales looked far more positive, with sales up 7.6 percent to $7.8 billion.
Local-currency growth rates were strongest in the automotive aftermarket
business. 3M also drove strong sales growth in two of its largest divisions,
namely abrasives and industrial tapes and adhesives. Closure systems for
personal hygiene products also showed good growth. Geographically, all major
regions drove positive local-currency sales growth. Strong market penetration
continued in emerging economies, especially the high growth BRICP countries
(Brazil, Russia, India, China and Poland), where the business drove strong
organic local-currency growth. Operating income declined, but increased after
adjusting for $66 million in restructuring actions and exit activities
(discussed further below). Strong operational discipline was the key to protecting
the bottom line as full-year operating margins totaled 18.9 percent, with
operating income margins at 19.7 percent after adjusting for restructuring and
exit activities.  

Industrial and
Transportation restructuring and exit activities totaled $66 million for total
year 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, restructuring actions totaling
$40 million (partially offset by a $4 million reduction in previously accrued
exit activity charges) were comprised of severance and related benefits
totaling $33 million and asset impairments of $7 million. Net exit activity
charges of $26 million in 2008 largely related to employee reductions at an
Industrial and Transportation manufacturing facility located in the United
Kingdom, which totaled $19 million. This compared to restructuring actions and
exit activities of $9 million in 2007.  

21  

Table of Contents   

Industrial and
Transportation continues to invest in innovative new products along with
complementary gap-fill acquisitions, evidenced by the closing of eight
acquisitions in 2008, with some of the larger acquisitions summarized as
follows. In July 2008, 3M acquired K H Surface Technologies Pty. Ltd.,
an Australian-based manufacturing company specializing in a range of repair
products for the professional do-it-yourself automotive refinish markets. In August 2008,
3M acquired Polyfoam Products Inc., a structural adhesives company specializing
in foam adhesives for tile roofing and other adhesive products for the building
industry. In October 2008, 3M completed its acquisition of EMFI S.A. and
SAPO S.A.S., manufacturers of polyurethane-based structural adhesives and
sealants headquartered in Haguenau, France. In October 2008, 3M also
completed its acquisition of Meguiar s Inc., a 100-year-old business that
manufactures the leading Meguiar s brand of car care products for cleaning and
protecting automotive surfaces, which is headquartered in Irvine, California.  

In 2007,
local-currency sales increased 5.8 percent, including 1.8 percent growth from
acquisitions. Sales growth was broad-based, led by industrial adhesives and
tapes, automotive aftermarket, abrasives and automotive OEM businesses. All
geographic areas contributed positively to growth. Significant manufacturing
investments were made in emerging economies such as India, China and Poland to
simplify the supply chain and get closer to local customers. Good operational
discipline helped deliver operating income growth of 11.9 percent, with
operating income margins of 20.6 percent. Operating   income in 2007 included $9
million in restructuring and other exit activity expenses, primarily comprised
of severance and related benefits. Operating income in 2006 included $15
million in restructuring expenses, primarily comprised of asset impairments and
severance and related benefits.  

In March 2005, 3M s
automotive business completed the purchase of 19 percent of TI M
Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (TI M) for approximately $55 million. TI M
is the parent company of I T Innovation Technology Entwicklungsund Holding
Aktiengesellschaft (I T), an Austrian maker of flat flexible cable and
circuitry. Pursuant to a Shareholders Agreement, 3M marketed the firm s flat
flexible wiring systems for automotive interior applications to the global
automotive market. I T filed a petition for bankruptcy protection in August 2006.
As part of its agreement to purchase the shares of TI M, the Company was
granted a put option, which gave the Company the right to sell back its entire
ownership interest in TI M to the other investors from whom 3M acquired its
19 percent interest. The put option became exercisable January 1, 2007.
The Company exercised the put option and recovered approximately $25 million of
its investment from one of the investors based in Belgium in February 2007.
The other two TI M investors have filed a bankruptcy petition in Austria.
The Company is pursuing recovery of the balance of its investment both through
the Austrian bankruptcy proceedings and pursuant to the terms of the Share
Purchase Agreement. The Company received approximately $6 million of its
investment back in the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company believes collection
of its remaining investment is probable and, as a result, no impairment reserve
has been recorded.  

Health Care Business (17.0% of consolidated sales):    

The Health Care
segment serves markets that include medical clinics and hospitals,
pharmaceuticals, dental and orthodontic practitioners, and health information
systems. Products and services provided to these and other markets include
medical and surgical supplies, skin health and infection prevention products,
drug delivery systems, dental and orthodontic products, health information
systems and anti-microbial solutions. As discussed in Note 2, the global
branded pharmaceuticals business was sold in December 2006 and January 2007.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, Health Care sales topped $1
billion, despite a nearly 7 percentage point penalty from currency translation.
In local-currency terms, sales rose 4.5 percent, including 2.2 percent from
acquisitions. 3M saw solid local-currency growth in the medical products area,
specifically in core infection prevention and skin and wound care products.
Geographically, the U.S. and Asia Pacific led sales growth. Operating income
margins of 24.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 were the highest in the
Company, which includes the impact of $50 million in restructuring and exit activity
charges that reduced operating income margins by 4.9 percentage points. This is
a highly competitive   

22  

Table of
Contents   

environment where 3M s brand presence and high quality are
clearly making a difference. Doctors, hospitals and other medical service
providers continue to show a strong preference for 3M products.  

For full-year 2008, Health Care s results were strong, with
sales increasing 8.2 percent to $4.3 billion and operating income margins of
27.3 percent. As discussed further below, both 2007 and 2006 operating income
results include significant gains from the sale of 3M s pharmaceuticals
business in December 2006 and January 2007, negatively impacting the
2008 versus 2007 year-on-year operating income comparison. Local-currency sales
were up 6.8 percent, largely organic, but also included 1.7 percent from
acquisitions. In 2008, 3M closed a number of important bolt-on acquisitions in
Health Care, including TOP-Service, a German orthodontic technology and
services company offering a digital lingual solution; Imtec, an Oklahoma-based
manufacturer of dental implants and cone beam computed tomography; and Solumed,
a Quebec-based developer and marketer of leading-edge medical products designed
to prevent infections in operating rooms and hospitals. Full-year 2008 sales
were led by strong increases in 3M s medical, dental and orthodontics
businesses. Sales grew in all geographies, led by strong gains in Asia Pacific
and Latin America.  

In 2007, Health Care sales were $3.968 billion. Local-currency growth
was 18.3 percent (excluding divestitures), including 4.4 percentage points of
growth from acquisitions  
and 4.5 percentage points of growth from supply agreements related to the sale
of the global branded pharmaceuticals business  . The   sale of the pharmaceuticals business
reduced Health Care sales growth by 23.7 percent. 3M provides disaggregated
information on sales growth for Health Care s remaining businesses (without
pharmaceuticals) further below.  

The combination of the following items positively impacted total year
2007 Health Care operating income by $791 million.   As discussed in Note 2, in January 2007 the
Company sold its branded pharmaceuticals business in the Europe region. The
operating income gain related to this sale, which is included in Health Care,
totaled $781 million. In addition, as discussed in Note 4, a net operating
income gain of $10 million was recorded in 2007, which primarily related to
adjustments to restructuring costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006.  

The combination of the following items positively impacted total year
2006 Health Care operating income by $673 million, primarily in the fourth
quarter of 2006.   As
discussed in Note 2, in early December 2006, the Company sold its branded
pharmaceuticals business in the Asia Pacific region, including Australia and
South Africa. The Company also sold its branded pharmaceuticals business in the
United States, Canada and Latin America in late December 2006. The
operating income gain related to this sale, which is included in Health Care,
totaled $1.074 billion. In addition, as discussed in Note 4, the Health Care segment for the year 2006
included $293 million in restructuring costs, primarily employee-related
severance and benefit costs. Of the $293 million, $166 million was related to
the pharmaceuticals business   and $15 million related to
Health Care severance and other costs  . In addition,   $112 million of severance and benefit
costs were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to worldwide staff
overhead reduction actions taken to streamline the Company s cost structure i  n response to
the sale of 3M s branded pharmaceuticals business.   Health Care also included
$95 million of expensed in-process research and development costs related to
the Brontes acquisition  
and $13 million in environmental reserves related to the pharmaceuticals
business.  

3M believes the following
disaggregated information for 3M Health Care s remaining businesses (without
pharmaceuticals) and for pharmaceuticals on a stand-alone basis provides useful
information.  

Health Care Business without Pharmaceuticals:    

The following discussion provides information on 3M Health
Care s remaining businesses (without pharmaceuticals). Refer to the preceding
section entitled  Health Care Business  for a discussion of sales change for
2008 compared to 2007. Operating income increased 8.0 percent to $1.173
billion, while operating income margins were maintained in excess of 27
percent. Operating income in 2008 included $60 million in restructuring actions
and exit activity charges,   

23  

Table of
Contents   

primarily comprised of severance and related benefits, but
also including $14 million in asset impairments. 2007 included $5 million in
restructuring expenses, primarily severance and related benefits.  

In 2007, sales growth was broad-based across all platforms,
led by infection prevention solutions and skin and wound care therapy products
in medical, HFA-based components (non-CFC) for drug inhalers in drug delivery,
and healthcare funding and performance management solutions for the hospital
market in health information systems. Geographically, Health Care (without
pharmaceuticals) achieved strong growth rates in all major regions, led by
Europe, the United States, and the combined Latin America and Canada area.
Local-currency sales increased 18.3 percent, with acquisitions contributing 4.4
percentage points of this growth. Much of the acquisition growth came from two
deals that closed in late 2006   Biotrace International, PLC, a U.K.-based
provider of microbiology products, and SoftMed, a Maryland-based provider of
health information software solutions. Health Care also closed five
complementary acquisitions in 2007 to strengthen the portfolio and accelerate
growth into the future in the medical, oral care and health information systems
businesses. Sales growth also included 4.5 percentage points of growth due to
supply agreements related to the sale of the global branded pharmaceuticals
business. Operating income increased 34.6 percent, with an operating income
margin of 27.4 percent. Operating income for 2007 included $5 million in
restructuring expenses, primarily severance and related benefits. Operating
income for 2006 included $95 million of expensed in-process research and
development costs related to the Brontes acquisition and also included
business-specific restructuring actions that totaled $15 million, primarily
comprised of severance and related benefits plus asset impairments.  

Pharmaceuticals Business:    

The combination of the following items positively impacted total year
2007 pharmaceuticals operating income by $796 million. As discussed in Note 2,
in January 2007 the Company sold its branded pharmaceuticals business in
the Europe region. The operating income gain related to this sale totaled $781
million. In addition, as discussed in Note 4, a net operating income gain of
$15 million was recorded in 2007, which primarily related to adjustments to
restructuring costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006. Drug Delivery
Systems Division (part of Health Care without Pharmaceuticals) is a source of
supply to the acquiring companies and records sales and operating income
related to the pharmaceuticals supply agreements.  

In total, the combination of the following items positively impacted
total year 2006 pharmaceuticals operating income by $783 million, primarily in
the fourth quarter of 2006.   As discussed in Note 2, in early December 2006, the Company sold
its branded pharmaceuticals business in the Asia Pacific region, including Australia
and South Africa. The Company also sold its branded pharmaceuticals business in
the United States, Canada and Latin America in late December 2006. The
operating income gain related to these transactions totaled $1.074 billion. As
discussed in Note 4, $112 million of severance and benefit costs were recorded
in the fourth quarter of 2006 related to worldwide staff overhead reduction
actions taken to streamline the Company s cost structure i  n response to
the sale of 3M s branded pharmaceuticals business.   As also discussed in Note 4, the pharmaceuticals business for total year 2006 included $97 million in
employee-related severance and benefits and $69 million of asset impairments
and other expenses. In addition, an environmental reserve of $13 million was
recognized related to the pharmaceuticals business.  

24  

Table of
Contents   

Safety, Security and Protection Services Business (14.4% of
consolidated sales):    

The Safety,
Security and Protection Services segment serves a broad range of markets that
increase the safety, security and productivity of workers, facilities and
systems. Major product offerings include personal protection products, safety
and security products (including border and civil security solutions), energy
control products, cleaning and protection products for commercial establishment s,
track and trace solutions, and roofing granules for asphalt shingles. In the
second quarter of 2008, 3M completed the sale of its HighJump Software business
which provided supply chain execution software solutions. 3M s Track and Trace
Solutions utilizes radio frequency identification (RFID) technology to provide
a growing array of solutions   from library patron self-checkout systems to
tracking packages.  

In the fourth quarter of
2008, sales in this business rose 2.9 percent to $769 million. Local-currency
sales increased 13 percent, driven by 3M s 2008 acquisition of Aearo
Technologies. Acquisitions contributed approximately 16 percentage points of
growth in the fourth quarter. On a geographic basis, sales for the quarter were
strongest in the United States, followed by the Asia Pacific region. Operating
income in the fourth quarter declined 12.8 percent, which included $12 million
in restructuring expenses.  

Full-year 2008
sales increased 18.6 percent. In local-currency terms, sales rose approximately
18 percent, comprised of 14 points from acquisitions and 2 points each from
organic volumes and selling price increases. Sales growth was led by
acquisitions, primarily Aearo, along with organic growth in personal protection
solutions, protective window films, and cleaning solutions for commercial
buildings,   and RFID solutions (Track and Trace).   Aearo, acquired in April 2008, manufactures and
sells personal protection and energy absorbing products. Aearo expanded 3M s
platform by adding hearing protection as well as eyewear and fall protection
product lines to 3M s existing line of respiratory products.   In July 2008,
3M acquired Quest Technologies Inc., a manufacturer of environmental monitoring
equipment, including noise, heat stress and vibration monitors. The sale of
HighJump Software (discussed below) resulted in   a 1.7 percentage point penalty to full-year sales.
Worldwide operating income was up 20.4 percent to $736 million.  

In 2008, 3M
announced and completed the sale of its HighJump Software business and
recognized a pre-tax loss of $23 million in the second quarter of 2008. In
addition, 3M recorded restructuring charges and exit activities that totaled
$15 million in 2008. Including the preceding 2008 items, operating income
margins were in excess of 20 percent for 2008. In the second quarter of 2007,
3M recorded a restructuring charge of $29 million related to the phaseout of
operations at its New Jersey roofing granule facility. This included fixed asset
impairments and employee-related restructuring liabilities.  

In 2007,
local-currency sales in the Safety, Security and Protection Services segment
were up 10.8 percent. Acquisitions contributed 7.4 percentage points of this
growth, including a carry-over benefit from the August 2006 acquisition of
Security Printing and Systems Limited. Sales growth was led by the respiratory
protection business, followed by the security systems, corrosion protection and
building and commercial services businesses. 2007 sales growth was held back by
market softness in the U.S. residential construction market, which negatively
impacted the roofing granules business. The decline in the roofing granules
business reduced Safety, Security and Protection Services  2007 sales growth by
approximately 1.5 percent. Geographically, sales growth was led by Europe and
the combined Latin America and Canada area. This segment recorded a
restructuring charge of $29 million in the second quarter of 2007 related to
the phaseout of operations at its New Jersey roofing granule facility. This
included fixed asset impairments and employee-related restructuring
liabilities. Including this charge, operating income margins were approximately
20 percent for total year 2007.   In 2006, operating income
includes $10 million in restructuring expenses, primarily severance and related
benefits.  

25  

Table of Contents   

Consumer and Office Business (13.6% of consolidated sales):    

The Consumer and
Office segment serves markets that include consumer retail, office retail, home
improvement, building maintenance and other markets. Products in this segment
include office supply products, stationery products, construction and home
improvement products, home care products, protective material products and
consumer health care products.  

In the fourth
quarter of 2008, Consumer and Office sales declined 11.2 percent to $765
million. Local currency sales were down 6.5 percent and currency impacts
reduced sales by just under 5 percentage points. U.S. sales declined by 13
percent, heavily impacted by the ongoing slump in U.S. consumer retail spending
levels. More than 50 percent of sales in Consumer and Office are generated
within the United States. By far the biggest contributor to this decline was
the retail and wholesale office channel. The combination of massive office
worker layoffs, coupled with across-the-board declines in office retail foot
traffic, had a dramatic and negative impact on sales. 3M businesses serving
other U.S. retail channels performed well in the fourth quarter despite this rough
economic environment. This business posted positive local-currency sales for
its home care products, such as Scotch-Brite  Scrub Sponges, and for its
do-it-yourself retail channel. Elsewhere around the globe, 3M s Consumer and
Office business drove positive local-currency sales growth in both Latin
America and Asia Pacific, but overall growth was muted by declines in Europe.
Worldwide operating income declined in the fourth quarter, including the impact
of $18 million in restructuring charges, which contributed 11.4 percentage
points of this 35.5 percent decline.  

For total year
2008, Consumer and Office sales grew just over 1 percent. This business has
successfully created new products and designed new programs and planograms with
their large U.S. customers in order to mitigate what is a very tough end-market
situation. Sales growth was led by home care and do-it-yourself products.
Operating income declined 4.1 percent and margins were in excess of 19 percent,
an outstanding return considering what was a slow U.S. market environment and a
synchronized slowdown in growth across most others areas of the world.
Geographically, sales growth was led by Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Operating income was negatively impacted by the $18 million in restructuring
charges discussed in the preceding paragraph.  

Going forward, 3M
expects sales growth in the Consumer and Office segment to continue to be led
by international operations as U.S. growth will remain uncertain over the near
term due to challenging economic conditions.  

In 2007, Consumer and
Office experienced broad-based local-currency sales growth of 5.0 percent, led
by the construction and home improvement and home cleaning businesses. In
construction and home improvement, products such as Scotch-Blue  Painter s
Tape, Filtrete  Furnace Filters and Command  Mounting Products, helped drive
results. Geographically, international growth led sales, while a slowdown in
the United States was driven by soft overall U.S. retail sales and a soft
residential housing environment. Operating income increased 9.2 percent and
exceeded 20 percent of sales.  

26  

Table of
Contents   

Display and Graphics Business (12.9% of consolidated sales):    

The Display and Graphics
segment serves markets that include electronic display, traffic safety and
commercial graphics. This segment includes optical film solutions for
electronic displays; computer screen filters; reflective sheeting for
transportation safety; commercial graphics systems; and projection systems,
including mobile display technology and visual systems products. The optical
film business   provides films that serve numerous market segments
of the electronic display industry. 3M provides distinct products for five
market segments, including products for: 1) LCD computer monitors 2) LCD
televisions 3) handheld devices such as cellular phones 4) notebook PCs and 5)
automotive displays.  

Results in this business
continue to be affected by end-market challenges in 3M s optical films
business, which is in the midst of transition from a hyper-growth business a
few years ago to one that is more commoditized in nature. Demand for optical
films slowed considerably in November and December of 2008 as TV,
desktop monitor and notebook PC makers cancelled orders for large-size LCD
panels due to weak holiday season sales, reflecting the global downturn in both
consumer and corporate demand. For the fourth quarter, 3M posted sales of $685
million in Display and Graphics. Sales declined 28 percent, or about 8 percent
excluding optical. Traffic safety systems posted local-currency sales growth of
nearly 3 percent, as highway infrastructure projects around the world continue
to grow at a modest rate. Local-currency sales declined by 6.3 percent in 3M s
commercial graphics business and by 48 percent in optical systems. Operating
income in the fourth quarter declined 80 percent, which included net charges of
$22 million for restructuring actions and exit activities.  

For the full year of
2008, sales declined 16.6 percent, driving operating income down 50 percent to
$580 million. Operating margins were at 17.8 percent for 2008. 3M has taken
aggressive action during 2008 to reduce its cost structure across all
businesses within Display and Graphics with particular focus on the optical film
business. 3M continues to champion the energy saving story in the LCD monitor
segment, and is gaining traction, but volumes remain low at this early stage.  

Second-half 2008
restructuring charges and exit activities of $42 million reduced operating income
for total year 2008. These expenses were comprised of severance/related
benefits and asset impairments. In 2007, 3M recorded a gain on the sale of its
Opticom Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection businesses, which
was partially offset by expenses related to restructuring and exit activities.
These items on a combined basis benefited operating income by $51 million in
2007 (as discussed in more detail in the next paragraph). In aggregate, these
items contributed approximately 6.0 percentage points of this 50.1 percent
operating income decline when comparing 2008 to 2007. In addition, the 2008
restructuring and exit activity charges reduced 2008 operating income margins
by 1.3 percentage points, while the 2007 net benefit contributed 1.3 percentage
points of the 29.8 percent operating income margin for 2007.  

In
2007, Display and Graphics local-currency sales increased 2.7 percent,
excluding the impact of the Opticom/Canoga business sale. The Company recorded
positive sales growth in all major businesses   commercial graphics, traffic
safety systems and optical systems. Throughout the year, commercial graphics
saw strong performance in the vehicle wrapping market where 3M provides films,
inks and other products for this  rolling billboard  industry. The traffic
safety systems business also experienced growth for the year, with faster
growth internationally as the 3M reflective solutions for highway construction
projects are a perfect match in developing economies that are adding
infrastructure. In June 2007, 3M completed the sale of its Opticom
Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection businesses. 3M received
proceeds of $80 million from this transaction and recognized an operating
income gain of $68 million in the Display and Graphics segment in the second
quarter of 2007. In addition, Display and Graphics recorded restructuring and
other exit activity expenses of $17 million in 2007. Operating income in 2007
was $1.163 billion, including this aggregate net operating income benefit of
$51 million,  

27  

Table of Contents   

which
contributed 1.3 percentage points of the 29.8 percent operating income margin.
Operating income in 2006 (as discussed in more detail in the next paragraph) included
$31 million in restructuring expenses. These year-on-year impacts contributed
7.9 percentage points of the reported 11.3 percent operating income growth.  

Operating
income in 2006 included $31 million in restructuring expenses, primarily
comprised of asset impairments and severance and related benefits.   These asset
impairments relate to decisions the Company made in the fourth quarter of 2006
to exit certain marginal product lines in the Optical Systems business.  

Electro and Communications Business (11.0% of consolidated
sales):    

The Electro and
Communications segment serves the electrical, electronics and communications
industries, including electrical utilities; electrical construction,
maintenance and repair; original equipment manufacturer (OEM) electrical and
electronics; computers and peripherals; consumer electronics;
telecommunications central office, outside plant and enterprise; as well as
aerospace, military, automotive and medical markets; with products that enable
the efficient transmission of electrical power and speed the delivery of
information and ideas. Products include electronic and interconnect solutions,
micro interconnect systems, high-performance fluids, high-temperature and
display tapes, telecommunications products, electrical products, and touch
screens and touch monitors.  

This business
serves a number of end-markets, the most important being consumer electronics
and telecommunications, along with the global power utility industry. In the
fourth quarter of 2008, the weak holiday season experienced by the consumer
electronics retailers had a large and negative impact on sales in this
business. Likewise the global telecommunications sector continues to cut
capital spending on new capacity and on upgrades of existing equipment. 3M had
a large number of equipment orders cancelled during the fourth quarter of 2008.
As a result of this end-market contraction, sales in Electro and Communications
declined by 15 percent in the fourth quarter. Sales in local currency decreased
about 12 percent, and currency impacts hurt sales by about 3 percentage points.
Operating income declined 38.8 percent, which included $7 million in restructuring
expenses.  

For the full-year 2008,
sales in Electro and Communications increased 1 percent to $2.8 billion, while
operating income increased 8 percent to $531 million. Operating margins were at
19 percent. The Electrical Markets and Electronic Markets Materials businesses
drove growth. The Communications Markets and Electronics Solutions businesses
remain soft. 3M also continued to experience declines in the flexible circuits
business where a number of product solutions are going end-of-life. Operating income
in 2008 was impacted by $7 million in restructuring expenses, while 2007
included $18 million in restructuring expenses, primarily for asset impairment
charges related to the Company s decision to close a facility in Wisconsin, and
$23 million for employee reductions and fixed asset impairments related to the
consolidation of certain flexible circuit manufacturing operations. In
aggregate, these items contributed 6.9 percentage points of the reported 8.0
percent operating income growth when comparing 2008 to the 2007.  

In 2007, the
Electro and Communications segment local-currency sales increased 1.0 percent,
driven by 1.5 percentage points from acquisitions. Strong sales growth in the
communications and electrical markets businesses was offset by declines in the
flexible circuits business, which supplies components primarily to the ink jet
printer market, as a number of applications go end-of-life. Softness in this
business held back overall Electro and Communications sales and operating
income growth by approximately 2.5 percent and 10 percent, respectively.
Operating income increased 19.7 percent as this segment has driven productivity
improvements and taken actions to improve its competitiveness. Operating income
in 2007 was penalized by a $23 million charge related to consolidating its
global flexible circuits manufacturing operations and $18 million in
restructuring expenses, primarily for asset impairment charges related to the
Company s decision to close a facility in Wisconsin. Combined, these two items
negatively impacted 2007 operating income by $41 million and operating income
margins by 1.5 percentage points.   In 2006, operating income
included $54 million in restructuring  

28  

Table of Contents   

expenses, primarily comprised of asset impairments and severance and
related benefits, including expenses related to the decision to exit certain
marginal product lines in the 3M Touch Systems business.  

PERFORMANCE
BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA   

Financial
information related to 3M operations in various geographic areas is provided in
Note 18. Operating income results by geographic area were significantly
impacted by the gain on sale of businesses and other items as discussed at the
end of the preceding overview section. As discussed in Note 18, effective in
2008, the Company changed its allocations of R D to more closely align
these costs with the geographic areas that benefit, with no change in worldwide
results. The operating income presented herein reflects the impact of these
changes for all periods presented. A summary of key information and discussion
related to 3M s geographic areas follow:  

While 3M manages its
businesses globally and believes its business segment results are the most
relevant measure of performance, the Company also utilizes geographic area data
as a secondary performance measure. Export sales are generally reported within
the geographic area where the final sales to 3M customers are made. A portion
of the products or components sold by 3M s operations to its customers are
exported by these customers to different geographic areas. As customers move
their operations from one geographic area to another, 3M s results will follow.
Thus, net sales in a particular geographic area are not indicative of end-user
consumption in that geographic area.  

In 2008, U.S.
local-currency sales increased 2.7 percent, with acquisitions contributing 5.3
percentage points. U.S. organic local-currency sales growth was led by Health
Care. Safety, Security and Protection Services and Industrial and
Transportation also drove positive sales growth, helped by acquisitions. This
was partially offset by softness in the electronic solutions business and
weakness in a few businesses that are impacted by the slowdown in the U.S.
housing, road construction and mass retail markets and office supply
businesses. Asia Pacific local-currency sales declined 5.9 percent. The
significant decrease in Optical Systems within Display and Graphics more than
offset the sales growth in the other five business segments. Sales in Japan
totaled approximately $2.2 billion, with local-currency sales down 5.2 percent
from 2007. Europe local-currency sales increased 2.8 percent, helped by
acquisitions, with growth in Safety, Security and Protection Services, Health Care,
and Industrial and Transportation. In the combined Latin America and Canada
area, local-currency sales increased 12.8 percent, with growth in all business
segments. Foreign currency translation positively impacted Europe sales by 4.0
percent, the combined Latin America and Canada area sales by 2.4 percent, and
the Asia Pacific area by 3.2 percent, as the U.S. dollar weakened in aggregate
against currencies in these geographic areas. For 2008, international
operations represented approximately 64 percent of 3M s sales.  

In 2008,
restructuring   actions, exit activities and a loss on sale of
businesses, which were partially offset by a gain on sale of real estate,   decreased worldwide operating income by
$269 million, with the largest impact in   the United States and
Europe. In 2007, the gain on sale of businesses and a gain on sale of real
estate, net of restructuring and other items, increased worldwide operating
income by $681 million, with the largest impact in Europe. In 2006, the gain on
sale, restructuring and other items increased worldwide operating income by
$523 million, with the largest impact in the United States.   Since 3M sold its global branded
pharmaceuticals business in December 2006 and January 2007, both
sales growth and operating income were negatively impacted when comparing 2007
to 2006. Sales in 2006 for pharmaceuticals totaled $332 million in the United
States, $315 million in Europe, $77 million in the Asia Pacific area, and $50
million in the Latin America and Canada area.   In addition to 2008 sales
and operating income results provided above, refer to Note 18 for geographic
area results for 2007 and 2006.  

29  

Table of Contents   

Geographic Area Supplemental
Information   

Employment:    

Employment
increased by approximately 2,900 people since year-end 2007, with acquisitions
during 2008 adding approximately 3,700 people as of December 31, 2008. In 2008
and 2007, 3M increased employees in the BRICP countries (Brazil, India, Russia,
China and Poland), where total sales increased more than 15 percent in both
years. These increases were offset by reductions in employment in 2008 for a
portion of the job eliminations that were announced in connection with
restructuring and exit activities. Employment increased by approximately 900
people when comparing year-end 2007 to year-end 2006, with acquisitions adding
approximately 2,500 employees, while restructuring and the pharmaceuticals
divestiture reduced employment.  

Capital Spending/Net Property, Plant and Equipment:    

The bulk of 3M
capital spending historically has been in the United States, resulting in
higher net property, plant and equipment balances in the United States. The
Company is striving to more closely align its manufacturing and sourcing with
geographic market sales, and because approximately 64 percent of sales are
outside the United States, this would increase production outside the United
States, helping to improve customer service and reduce working capital
requirements. Capital expenditures were $1.471 billion in 2008, similar to
2007. Capital expenditures are expected to be reduced by more than 30 percent
in 2009.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES   

Information
regarding significant accounting policies is included in Note 1. As stated in
Note 1, the preparation of financial statements requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on
various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  

The Company
believes its most critical accounting estimates relate to legal proceedings,
the Company s pension and postretirement obligations, asset impairments and
income taxes. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and
disclosure of its critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of 3M s
Board of Directors.  

Legal Proceedings:    

The categories of
claims for which the Company has estimated its probable liability, the amount
of its liability accruals, and the estimates of its related insurance
receivables are critical accounting estimates related to legal proceedings.
Please refer to the section entitled  Accrued Liabilities and Insurance
Receivables Related to Legal Proceedings  (contained in  Legal Proceedings  in
Note 14) for additional information about such estimates.  

Pension and Postretirement Obligations:    

3M has various
company-sponsored retirement plans covering substantially all U.S. employees
and many employees outside the United States. The Company accounts for its
defined benefit pension and postretirement health care and life insurance
benefit plans in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions,  SFAS No. 106,  Employer s
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions,  in measuring plan
assets and benefit obligations and in determining the amount of net periodic
benefit cost, and SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106 and 132(R),  which was issued in September 2006 and effective as
of December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize
the underfunded or overfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan
as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and recognize
changes   

30  

Table of Contents   

in the funded status in
the year in which the changes occur through accumulated other comprehensive
income, which is a component of stockholders  equity.  

Pension benefits
associated with these plans are generally based primarily on each participant s
years of service, compensation, and age at retirement or termination. Two
critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets,
are important elements of expense and liability measurement. The assumed health
care trend rate is the most significant postretirement health care assumption.
See Note 11 for additional discussion of actuarial assumptions used in
determining pension and postretirement health care liabilities and expenses.  

The
Company determines the discount rate used to measure plan liabilities as of the
December 31 measurement date for the U.S. pension and postretirement
benefit plans. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the
associated liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The
Company sets its rate to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality,
fixed-income debt instruments that would produce cash flows sufficient in
timing and amount to settle projected future benefits. Using this methodology,
the Company determined a discount rate of 6.14% to be appropriate as of December 31,
2008, which is an increase from the 6.00% rate used as of December 31,
2007.  

A significant element in
determining the Company s pension expense in accordance with SFAS No. 87
is the expected return on plan assets, which is based on historical results for
similar allocations among asset classes. For the U.S. pension plan, refer to
Note 11 for information on how the 8.50% expected long-term rate of return on
an annualized basis for 2009 is determined.  

For the year ended December 31,
2008, the Company recognized total consolidated pre-tax pension expense (after
settlements, curtailments and special termination benefits) of $89 million,
down from $190 million in 2007. Pension expense (before settlements,
curtailments and special termination benefits) is anticipated to increase to
approximately $125 million in 2009. For the pension plans, holding all
other factors constant, an increase/decrease in the expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets of 0.25 of a percentage point would decrease/increase
2009 pension expense by approximately $26 million for U.S. pension plans
and approximately $9 million for international pension plans. Also, holding all
other factors constant, an increase in the discount rate used to measure plan
liabilities of 0.25 of a percentage point would decrease 2009 pension expense
by approximately $30 million for U.S. pension plans and approximately $12
million for international pension plans. A decrease in the discount rate of
0.25 of a percentage point would increase 2009 pension expense by approximately
$31 million for U.S. pension and plans and approximately $14 million for
international pension plans. See Note 11 for details of the impact of a
one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates on the
postretirement health care benefit expense and obligation.  

Asset Impairments:    

3M net property, plant
and equipment totaled $6.9 billion as of December 31, 2008. Management
makes estimates and assumptions in preparing the consolidated financial
statements for which actual results will emerge over long periods of time. This
includes the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business,
including assets of acquired businesses. These estimates and assumptions are
closely monitored by management and periodically adjusted as circumstances
warrant. For instance, expected asset lives may be shortened or an impairment
recorded based on a change in the expected use of the asset or performance of
the related asset group. Impairments recorded in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related to
restructuring actions and other exit activities are discussed in Note 4.  

3M goodwill totaled
approximately $5.8 billion as of December 31, 2008, which, based on
impairment testing, is not impaired. Impairment testing for goodwill is done at
a reporting unit level, with all goodwill assigned to a reporting unit.
Reporting units are one level below the business segment level (3M has six
business segments at December 31, 2008), but can be combined when
reporting units within the same segment have similar economic characteristics.
As of December 31, 2008, 3M did not combine any of its reporting units for
impairment testing.  

An impairment loss
generally would be recognized when the carrying amount of the reporting unit s
net assets exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The
estimated fair value of a reporting unit is determined using earnings for the
reporting unit multiplied by a price/earnings ratio for comparable industry
groups, or by using a discounted cash flow analysis. 3M typically uses the
price/earnings ratio approach for stable and growing businesses that have a
long history and track record of generating positive operating income and cash
flows. 3M uses the discounted cash flow approach for start-up, loss position
and declining businesses, but also uses discounted cash flow as an additional
tool for businesses that may be growing at a slower rate than planned due to
economic or other conditions. 3M completes its annual impairment tests in the
fourth quarter of each year.  

As of December 31,
2008, 3M had 34 primary reporting units, with eight reporting units accounting
for nearly 80 percent of the goodwill. At 3M, reporting units generally
correspond to a division. These eight reporting units were comprised of the
following divisions: Occupational Health and Environmental Safety, CUNO,
Optical Systems, ESPE, Communication Markets, Security Systems, Industrial
Adhesives and Tapes, and Health Information Systems. These   

31  

Table of Contents   

eight reporting units all
generated operating income for total year 2008. As part of its annual
impairment testing in the fourth quarter, 3M used discounted cash flow models
for its CUNO, Optical Systems and Security Systems divisions. A
weighted-average discounted cash flow analysis was performed for the CUNO and
Optical Systems Divisions, using projected cash flows that were weighted based
on different sales growth and terminal value assumptions, among other factors.
The weighting was based on managements  estimates of the likelihood of each
scenario occurring. The discounted cash flows for the CUNO, Optical Systems and
Security Systems divisions were all in excess of their respective net book
values, with no impairment indicated.  

In 2008, in addition to
using discounted cash flows for certain reporting units, 3M used an adjusted
industry price-earnings ratio approach for the remaining reporting units. 3M
adjusted the stated applicable industry price-earnings ratio downward for its
annual test in the fourth quarter, unlike prior years when no adjustment was
required. Without this adjustment, the addition of each reporting unit s
estimated market values would have been significantly in excess of 3M s total
Company market value, which would have resulted in an unusually high implied
control premium. The control premium is defined as the sum of the individual
reporting units estimated market values compared to 3M s total Company market
value, with the sum of the individual values typically being larger than the
value for the total Company. For example, at year-end 2008, 3M s market value
was approximately $40 billion, but if each reporting unit was sold
individually, 3M s value would be approximately $52 billion using a 30 percent
control premium. 3M factored down its price/earnings ratio significantly for
the respective reporting units to approximate what the price/earnings ratio
would be at a more normal historical control premium of approximately 30
percent for the total Company. Even after including this adjustment to the
price-earnings ratio, no goodwill impairment was indicated for any of the
reporting units. In addition, 3M s market value at December 31, 2008 of
approximately $40 billion is significantly in excess of its book value of
approximately $10 billion. 3M will continue to monitor its reporting units in
2009 for any triggering events or other signs of impairment.  

Income Taxes:    

The extent of 3M s
operations involves dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application
of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The final taxes
paid are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing
authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from
federal, state, and international tax audits. The Company recognizes potential
liabilities and records tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the
United States and other tax jurisdictions based on its estimate of whether, and
the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. As of January 1, 2007,
the Company follows FIN 48 guidance to record these liabilities (refer to Note
8 for additional information). The Company adjusts these reserves in light of
changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of
these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is
materially different from the Company s current estimate of the tax
liabilities. If the Company s estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less
than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. If
payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded
amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being
recognized in the period when the Company determines the liabilities are no
longer necessary.  

NEW
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   

Information regarding new
accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY   

The strength of 3M s
capital structure and consistency of its cash flows provide 3M stable access to
capital markets in these uncertain times. During recent dislocation in the
financial markets, 3M has had uninterrupted access to the commercial paper
market. Interest rates on commercial paper issued by the Company have not been
materially negatively impacted by the market difficulties. 3M borrowed $850
million via a long-term debt issue in August 2008 with a coupon of 4.375%.
3M also raised $800 million via a three-year debt issue in October 2008
with a coupon of 4.5%. Despite the market turmoil, 3M was able to secure
funding to alleviate concerns about having ample liquidity to meet its
foreseeable needs. As indicated in the table below, at December 31, 2008,
3M had $2.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and
$6.7 billion of debt. Debt is comprised of $1.552 billion of short-term debt,
including $575 million of commercial paper, and $5.166 billion of long-term
debt. Approximately $900 million of the long-term debt is classified as
current, including $350 million in Dealer Remarketable Securities, which
ultimately mature in December 2010, and a $62 million floating rate note,
which has a put option. At December 31, 2008, the majority of the Company s
long-term debt balance does not mature until 2011 or later. Thus, while credit
markets remain volatile, 3M s capital structure remains very strong. 3M is
committed to managing its capital structure very carefully.  

The Company
generates significant ongoing cash flow. Increases in long-term debt have been
used to partially fund share repurchase activities and acquisitions. On April 1,
2008, 3M (Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) completed its
acquisition of 100 percent of the outstanding shares of Aearo   a global leader
in the personal protection  

32  

Table of Contents   

industry that
manufactures and markets personal protection and energy absorbing products  
for approximately $1.2 billion, inclusive of debt assumed, which was
immediately paid off.  

Cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities at December 31, 2008 totaled approximately $2.6
billion, helped by cash flows from operating activities of $4.5 billion. At December 31,
2007, cash balances were higher due to strong cash flow generation and by the
timing of debt issuances. The Company has sufficient liquidity to meet
currently anticipated growth plans, including capital expenditures, working
capital investments and acquisitions.      The Company does not utilize derivative instruments
linked to the Company s stock. However, the Company does have contingently
convertible debt that, if conditions for conversion are met, is convertible
into shares of 3M common stock (refer to Note 10 in this document).  

The Company s financial
condition and liquidity are strong. Various assets and liabilities, including
cash and short-term debt, can fluctuate significantly from month to month
depending on short-term liquidity needs. Working capital (defined as current
assets minus current liabilities) totaled $3.759 billion at December 31,
2008, compared with $4.476 billion at December 31, 2007. Working capital
decreases were attributable to declines in cash and cash equivalents,
short-term marketable securities and accounts receivable, while increases in
short-term debt and other current liabilities also decreased working capital.
This was partially offset by working capital increases attributable to
decreases in accounts payable and accrued income taxes, combined with increases
in inventory.  

Primary short-term liquidity needs are met through
U.S. commercial paper and euro commercial paper issuances. As of December 31,
2008, outstanding total commercial paper issued totaled $575 million and
averaged $1.106 billion during 2008. The Company believes it unlikely that its
access to the commercial paper market will be restricted.   In June 2007,
the Company established a medium-term notes program through which up to $3
billion of medium-term notes may be offered, with remaining   shelf borrowing capacity of $850 million
as of December 31, 2008 (see additional discussion in following paragraph).
Effective April 30, 2007, the Company has a $1.5-billion five-year credit
facility, which has provisions for the Company to request an increase of the
facility up to $2 billion (at the lenders  discretion), and providing for up to
$150 million in letters of credit. At December 31, 2008, available
short-term committed lines of credit, including the preceding $1.5 billion
five-year credit facility, totaled approximately $1.582 billion, of which
approximately $143 million was utilized for letters of credit in connection
with normal business activities. Debt covenants do not restrict the payment of
dividends.  

The Company has a  well-known
seasoned issuer  shelf registration statement, effective February 24,
2006, which registers an indeterminate amount of debt or equity securities for
future sales.   The Company intends to use the proceeds from future
securities sales off this shelf for general corporate purposes.   In connection with this shelf
registration, in June 2007 the Company established a medium-term notes
program through which up to $3 billion of medium-term notes may be offered. In December 2007,
3M issued a five-year, $500 million, fixed rate note with a coupon rate of
4.65% under this medium-term notes program. In August 2008, 3M issued a
five-year, $850 million, fixed rate note with a coupon rate of 4.375% under
this medium-term notes program. In October 2008, the Company issued a
three-year $800 million, fixed rate note with a coupon rate of 4.50%, under
this medium-term notes program, reducing remaining capacity to $850 million as
of December 31, 2008. The Company has the ability to increase the amount
of securities that are authorized to be issued under this program.  

The
Company has an AA credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard  
Poor s and an Aa1 credit rating, with a negative outlook, from Moody s
Investors Service. At December 31, 2008, certain debt agreements ($350
million of dealer remarketable securities and $44 million of ESOP debt)
had ratings triggers (BBB-/Baa3 or lower) that would require repayment of debt.
In addition, under the $1.5-billion five-year credit facility agreement, 3M is
required to maintain its EBITDA to Interest Ratio as of the end of each fiscal
quarter at not less than 3.0 to 1. This is calculated (as defined in the
agreement) as the ratio of consolidated total EBITDA for the four consecutive
quarters then ended to total interest expense on all funded debt for the same
period. At December 31, 2008, this ratio was approximately 30 to 1.  

33  

Table of Contents   

3M s cash and cash
equivalents balance at December 31, 2008 totaled $1.849 billion, with an
additional $725 million in current and long-term marketable securities. 3M s
strong balance sheet and liquidity provide the Company with significant
flexibility to take advantage of numerous opportunities going forward. The
Company will continue to invest in its operations to drive growth, including
continual review of acquisition opportunities. 3M paid dividends of $1.398
billion in 2008, and has a long history of dividend increases. In February 2009,
the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend on 3M common stock by 2
percent to 51 cents per share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $2.04 per
share. In February 2007, 3M s Board of Directors authorized a two-year
share repurchase of up to $7.0 billion for the period from February 12,
2007 to February 28, 2009. At December 31, 2008, the Company has $2.6
billion remaining under this authorization. In February 2009, 3M s Board
of Directors extended this share repurchase authorization until the remaining
$2.6 billion is fully utilized.  

In 2009, the
Company expects to contribute an amount in the range of $600 million to $850
million to its U.S. and international pension plans. The Company does not have
a required minimum pension contribution obligation for its U.S. plans in 2009.
Therefore, the amount of the anticipated discretionary contribution could vary
significantly depending on the U.S. qualified plans  funding status as of the
2009 measurement date and the anticipated tax deductibility of the
contribution. Future contributions will also depend on market conditions,
interest rates and other factors. 3M believes its strong cash flow and balance
sheet will allow it to fund future pension needs without compromising growth
opportunities.  

The Company uses various
working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working
capital assets and liabilities. These measures are not defined under U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and may not be computed the same as
similarly titled measures used by other companies. One of the primary working
capital measures 3M uses is a combined index, which includes accounts
receivable, inventory and accounts payable. This combined index (defined as
quarterly net sales   fourth quarter at year-end   multiplied by four, divided
by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable) was 4.5
at December 31, 2008, down from 5.3 at December 31, 2007. Receivables
decreased $167 million, or 5.0 percent, compared with December 31, 2007.
Currency translation decreased accounts receivable by $97 million year-on-year,
as the U.S. dollar strengthened in aggregate against a multitude of currencies.
Inventories increased $161 million, or 5.6 percent, compared with December 31,
2007. Currency translation decreased inventories by $134 million year-on-year.
Accounts payable decreased $204 million compared with December 31,
2007. Currency translation decreased accounts payable by $35 million
year-on-year.  

Cash flows from
operating, investing and financing activities are provided in the tables that
follow. Individual amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows exclude
the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and exchange rate impacts, which are
presented separately in the cash flows. Thus, the amounts presented in the
following operating, investing and financing activities tables reflect changes
in balances from period to period adjusted for these effects.  

Cash Flows from Operating Activities:    

34  

Table of Contents   

Cash flows from operating
activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period, as pension
funding decisions, tax timing differences and other items can significantly
impact cash flows. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company made discretionary
contributions of $200 million to its U.S. qualified pension plan.  

In 2008, cash
flows provided by operating activities increased $258 million. Net income
decreased $636 million, primarily due to gains from the sale of businesses in
2007 which did not repeat in 2008. Accounts receivable decreases benefited cash
flows in 2008, but increases in inventories and decreases in accounts payable negatively
impacted cash flows. The category  Other-net  in the preceding table reflects
changes in other asset and liability accounts, including outstanding
liabilities at December 31, 2008 related to 3M s restructuring actions
(Note 4).  

In 2007, cash flows
provided by operating activities increased $436 million, including an increase
in net income of $245 million. Since the gain from sale of businesses is
included in and increases net income, the pre-tax gain from the sale of the
businesses must be subtracted, as shown above, to properly reflect operating
cash flows. The cash proceeds from the sale of the pharmaceuticals business are
shown as part of cash from investing activities; however, when the related
taxes are paid they are required to be shown as part of cash provided by
operating activities. Thus, operating cash flows for 2007 were penalized due to
cash income tax payments of approximately $630 million in 2007 that related to
the sale of the global branded pharmaceuticals business. Non-pharmaceutical
related cash income tax payments were approximately $475 million lower than
2006 due to normal timing differences in tax payments, which benefited cash
flows. Accounts receivable and inventory increases reduced cash flows in 2007,
but decreased cash flow less than in 2006, resulting in a year-on-year benefit
to cash flows of $323 million. The category  Other-net  in the preceding table
reflects changes in other asset and liability accounts, including the impact of
cash payments made in connection with 3M s restructuring actions (Note 4).  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities:    

Investments in property, plant and equipment enable
growth in diverse markets, helping to meet product demand and increasing
manufacturing efficiency. In 2008, major facility efforts included completion
of production lines in the United States for both Consumer and Office and
Health Care, an R D laboratory in Korea, a tape building in Poland, and
numerous tape lines and building expansions in China. In 2008, 3M also made
progress towards completion of investments in a Singapore multi-purpose
manufacturing facility and film production facilities and made progress towards
completion of manufacturing cost reduction investments in two of its U.S. film
manufacturing plants. For 2009, 3M has already cut capital spending plans more
than 30 percent. A substantial amount of the 2009 expected spending will be
carryover from 2008 or for tooling needed for new products and continued
operations.  

In 2007, numerous plants were opened or expanded
internationally. This included two facilities in Korea (respirator
manufacturing facility and optical plant), industrial adhesives/tapes
facilities in both Brazil and the Philippines, a plant in Russia (corrosion
protection, industrial adhesive and tapes, and respirators), a plant in China
(optical systems, industrial adhesives and tapes, and personal care), an
expansion in Canada (construction and home improvement business), in addition
to investments in India, Mexico and other countries. In addition, 3M expanded manufacturing
capabilities in the U.S., including investments in industrial adhesives/tapes
and optical. As a result of this increased activity, capital expenditures were
$1.422 billion in 2007, an increase of $254 million when compared to 2006.  

Refer to Note 2 for
information on 2008, 2007 and 2006 acquisitions. Note 2 also provides
information on the proceeds from the sale of businesses. The Company is
actively considering additional acquisitions, investments and strategic
alliances, and from time to time may also divest certain businesses.  

Purchases
of marketable securities and investments and proceeds from sale (or maturities)
of marketable securities and investments are primarily attributable to   asset-backed securities, agency
securities, corporate medium-term note securities and other securities, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Interest rate risk and credit risk related to the underlying collateral may
impact the value of investments in asset-backed securities, while factors such
as general conditions in the overall credit market and the nature of the
underlying collateral may affect the liquidity of investments in   

35  

Table of Contents   

asset-backed
securities. The coupon interest rates for asset-backed securities are either
fixed rate or floating. Floating rate coupons reset monthly or quarterly
based upon the corresponding monthly or quarterly LIBOR rate. Each individual
floating rate security has a coupon based upon the respective LIBOR rate +/- an
amount reflective of the credit risk of the issuer and the underlying
collateral on the original issue date. Terms of the reset are unique to
individual securities. Fixed rate coupons are established at the time the
security is issued and are based upon a spread to a related maturity treasury
bond. The spread against the treasury bond is reflective of the credit
risk of the issuer and the underlying collateral on the original issue date. 3M
does not currently expect risk related to its holdings in asset-backed
securities to materially impact its financial condition or liquidity. Refer to
Note 9 for more details about 3M s   diversified marketable securities portfolio, which
totaled $725 million as of December 31, 2008. Proceeds from sales or
maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, total approximately $282
million in 2008. Purchases of
marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, totaled $429 million in
2007 and $637 million in 2006. In 2005, 3M purchased 19 percent of
TI M Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH for approximately $55 million. In 2007,
the recovery of approximately $25 million reduced  Investments  and is shown in
cash flows within  Proceeds from sale of marketable securities and investments. 
This investment is discussed in more detail under the preceding section
entitled Industrial and Transportation Business. Additional purchases of
investments include additional survivor benefit insurance and equity investments.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:    

Total debt at December 31,
2008, was $6.718 billion, up from $4.920 billion at year-end 2007. Total debt
was 40 percent of total capital (total capital is defined as debt plus equity),
compared with 30 percent at year-end 2007. The net change in short-term debt is
primarily due to commercial paper activity. In 2008, the repayment of debt for
maturities greater than 90 days primarily represents debt acquired upon the
acquisition of Aearo that was immediately repaid and repayment of commercial
paper with maturities greater than 90 days. Proceeds from debt primarily
include a five-year, $850 million, fixed rate note issued in August 2008
with a coupon rate of 4.375%, and a three-year, $800 million, fixed rate note
issued in October 2008 with a coupon rate of 4.5% (refer to Note 10 for
more information).  

Total debt at December 31,
2007, was $4.920 billion, up from $3.553 billion at year-end 2006. The net
change in short-term debt is primarily due to commercial paper activity. In
2007, the repayment of debt for maturities greater than 90 days is primarily
comprised of commercial paper repayments of approximately $1.15 billion and the
November 2007 redemption of approximately $322 million in Convertible
Notes. In 2007, proceeds from debt included long-term debt and commercial paper
issuances totaling approximately $4 billion. This was comprised of Eurobond
issuances in December 2007 and July 2007 totaling approximately $1.5
billion in U.S. dollars, a March 2007 long-term debt issuance of $750
million and a December 2007 fixed rate note issuance of $500 million, plus
commercial paper issuances (maturities greater than 90 days) of approximately
$1.25 billion. Increases in long-term debt were used, in part, to fund share
repurchase activities.  

Repurchases of common
stock are made to support the Company s stock-based employee compensation plans
and for other corporate purposes. In February 2007, 3M s Board of
Directors authorized a two-year share repurchase of up to $7.0 billion for the
period from February 12, 2007 to February 28, 2009. In 2008, the
Company purchased $1.6 billion in shares. In 2007, the Company accelerated
purchases of treasury stock when compared to prior years, buying back $3.2
billion in shares. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $2.6 billion
remained available for repurchase. In February 2009, 3M s Board of
Directors extended this share repurchase authorization until the remaining $2.6
billion is fully utilized. For more information, refer to the table titled  Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5.  

36  

Table of Contents   

Cash dividends paid to
stockholders totaled $1.398 billion ($2.00 per share) in 2008, $1.380 billion
($1.92 per share) in 2007 and $1.376 billion ($1.84 per share) in 2006. 3M has
paid dividends since 1916. In February 2009, the Board of Directors
increased the quarterly dividend on 3M common stock by 2.0 percent to 51 cents
per share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $2.04 per share. This marked the
51st consecutive year of dividend increases. Other cash flows from financing
activities primarily include distributions to minority interests, excess tax
benefits from stock-based compensation, changes in cash overdraft balances, and
principal payments for capital leases.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations:    

As of December 31, 2008, the Company has not
utilized special purpose entities to facilitate off-balance sheet financing
arrangements. Refer to the section entitled  Warranties/Guarantees  in Note 14
for discussion of accrued product warranty liabilities and guarantees.  

In addition to
guarantees, 3M, in the normal course of business, periodically enters into
agreements that require the Company to indemnify either major customers or
suppliers for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage
arising out of the use of 3M products or the negligence of 3M personnel, or
claims alleging that 3M products infringe third-party patents or other
intellectual property. While 3M s maximum exposure under these indemnification
provisions cannot be estimated, these indemnifications are not expected to have
a material impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations or
financial condition.  

A summary of the Company s
significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008, follows:  

Contractual Obligations   

Long-term debt payments
due in 2009 include $350 million of dealer remarketable securities (final
maturity 2010) and $62 million of floating rate notes (final maturity 2044).
These securities are classified as the current portion of long-term debt as the
result of put provisions associated with these debt instruments. Long-term debt
payments due in 2010 and 2011 include floating rate notes totaling $85 million
and $100 million, respectively, as a result of put provisions. Additionally, payments
due in 2012 include the $224 million carrying amount of Convertible Notes, as a
result of the put provision.  

Unconditional purchase
obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is
enforceable and legally binding on the Company. Included in the unconditional
purchase obligations category above are certain obligations related to take or
pay contracts, capital commitments, service agreements and utilities. These
estimates include both unconditional purchase obligations with terms in excess
of one year and normal ongoing purchase obligations with terms of less than one
year. Many of these commitments relate to take or pay contracts, in which 3M
guarantees payment to ensure availability of products or services that are sold
to customers. The Company expects to receive consideration (products or
services) for these unconditional purchase obligations. Contractual capital
commitments are included in the preceding table, but these commitments
represent a small part of the Company s expected capital spending in 2009 and
beyond. The purchase obligation amounts do not represent the entire anticipated
purchases in the future, but represent only those items for which the Company
is contractually obligated. The majority of 3M s products and services are
purchased as needed, with no unconditional commitment. For this reason, these
amounts will not provide a reliable indicator of the Company s expected future
cash outflows on a stand-alone basis.  

Other obligations,
included in the preceding table within the caption entitled  Unconditional
purchase obligations and other,  include the current portion of the liability
for uncertain tax positions under FIN 48. The Company is not able to reasonably
estimate the timing of the long-term payments or the amount by which the
liability will increase or decrease over time; therefore, the long-term portion
of the net tax liability of $314 million is excluded from the preceding table.
Refer to Note 8 for further details.  

37  

Table of Contents   

As discussed in Note 11,
the Company does not have a required minimum pension contribution obligation
for its U.S. plans in 2009 and Company contributions to its U.S. and
international pension plans are expected to be largely discretionary in 2009
and future years; therefore, amounts related to these plans are not included in
the preceding table.  

FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS   

The Company enters
into contractual derivative arrangements in the ordinary course of business to
manage foreign currency exposure, interest rate risks and commodity price
risks. A financial risk management committee, composed of senior management,
provides oversight for risk management and derivative activities. This
committee determines the Company s financial risk policies and objectives, and
provides guidelines for derivative instrument utilization. This committee also
establishes procedures for control and valuation, risk analysis, counterparty credit
approval, and ongoing monitoring and reporting.  

The Company enters
into foreign exchange forward contracts, options and swaps to hedge against the
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign
currencies and certain intercompany financing transactions. The Company manages
interest rate risks using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. To help manage
borrowing costs, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps. Under these
arrangements, the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the
difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference
to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. The Company manages commodity
price risks through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements
and forward physical contracts.  

A Monte Carlo simulation technique was used to test the Company s
exposure to changes in currency and interest rates and assess the risk of loss
or benefit in after-tax earnings of financial instruments, derivatives and underlying
exposures outstanding at December 31, 2008. The model (third-party bank
dataset) used a 95 percent confidence level over a 12-month time horizon. The
model used analyzed 17 currencies, interest rates related to three currencies,
and five commodities, but does not purport to represent what actually will be
experienced by the Company. This model does not include certain hedge
transactions, because the Company believes their inclusion would not materially
impact the results. Foreign exchange rate risk of loss or benefit increased
substantially in 2008 primarily due to increases in volatility during 2008,
which is one of the key drivers in the valuation model. The decline in interest
rate risk of loss or benefit during 2008 was primarily due to decreases in
interest rates. The following table summarizes the possible adverse and
positive impacts to after-tax earnings related to these exposures.  

The global exposures related to purchased components and
materials are such that a 1 percent price change would result in a pre-tax cost
or savings of approximately $63 million per year. The global energy exposure is
such that a 10 percent price change would result in a pre-tax cost or savings
of approximately $42 million per year. Derivative instruments are used to hedge
approximately 1 percent of the purchased components and materials exposure and
are used to hedge approximately 10 percent of this energy exposure.  

FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS   

This Annual Report on Form 10-K including  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Item 7,
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company may also make
forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press
releases. In addition, the Company s representatives may from time to time make
oral forward-looking statements.  

Forward-looking statements relate to future events and typically
address the Company s expected future business and financial performance. Words
such as  plan,   expect,   aim,   believe,   project,   target,   anticipate,   intend, 
 estimate,   will,   should,   could  and other words and terms of similar
meaning, typically identify such forward-looking statements. In particular,
these include statements about the Company s strategy for growth, product
development, market position, future performance or results of current or
anticipated products, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial
results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. The
Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
statements.  

Forward-looking
statements are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events
and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual future results
and trends may differ materially from historical results or those   

38  

Table of Contents   

reflected
in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors.   Discussion of these factors is
incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  of this
document, and should be considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

Item 7A.  Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.      

In the context of Item 7A, market risk refers to the risk
of loss arising from adverse changes in financial and derivative instrument
market rates and prices, such as fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. The Company discusses risk management in various
places throughout this document, including discussions in Item 7 concerning
Financial Condition and Liquidity, and Financial Instruments, and in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (Long-Term Debt and Short-Term Borrowings,
Derivatives, Fair Value Measurements, and the Derivatives and Hedging
Activities accounting policy). All derivative activity is governed by written
policies, and a value-at-risk analysis is provided for these derivatives. The
Company does not have leveraged derivative positions. However, the Company does
have contingently convertible debt that, if conditions for conversion are met,
is convertible into shares of 3M common stock (refer to Note 10 in this
document).  

39  

Table of
Contents   

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.      

Index to
Financial Statements     

40  

Table of Contents   

Management s Responsibility for
Financial Reporting     

Management is responsible for the integrity and
objectivity of the financial information included in this report. The financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Where necessary, the
financial statements reflect estimates based on management s judgment.  

Management has established and maintains a system of
internal accounting and other controls for the Company and its subsidiaries.
This system and its established accounting procedures and related controls are
designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that the
books and records properly reflect all transactions, that policies and
procedures are implemented by qualified personnel, and that published financial
statements are properly prepared and fairly presented. The Company s system of
internal control is supported by widely communicated written policies,
including business conduct policies, which are designed to require all
employees to maintain high ethical standards in the conduct of Company affairs.
Internal auditors continually review the accounting and control system.  

3M Company  

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting.
Management conducted an assessment of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework .
Based on the assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31,
2008, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.  

Management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008 excluded Aearo, which was acquired by the Company in April 2008 in a
purchase business combination. Aearo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company whose total assets and total net sales represented less than 10% of
consolidated total assets and less than 2% of consolidated net sales,
respectively, of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31,
2008. Companies are allowed to exclude acquisitions from their assessment of
internal control over financial reporting during the first year of an
acquisition while integrating the acquired company under guidelines established
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

The Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, as stated in their report which is included herein, which expresses an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.  

3M Company  

41  

Table of Contents   

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

To    the Stockholders and Board of Directors of 3M Company:  

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the accompanying
index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of 3M Company and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) at December 31, 2008
and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based
on criteria established in  Internal Control -
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in  Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  in the accompanying index. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.  

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed the manner in which it accounts for defined benefit pension and other
post-retirement plans in 2006 and the manner in which it accounts for uncertain
tax positions in 2007.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

As
described in  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
in the accompanying index, management has excluded Aearo from its assessment of
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 because
it was acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination during 2008.
We have also excluded Aearo from our audit of internal control over financial
reporting. Aearo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company whose total assets
and total net sales represent less than 10% and less than 2%, respectively, of
the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2008.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP  

  Minneapolis, Minnesota  

  February 10,
2009  

42  

Table of
Contents   

Consolidated
Statement of Income     

3M Company and Subsidiaries   

   Years ended December 31   

The accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement.  

43  

Table of
Contents   

Consolidated
Balance Sheet     

3M
Company and Subsidiaries   

   At
December 31   

The accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement.  

44  

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income     

3M Company and Subsidiaries   

   Years Ended December 31   

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of this statement.  

45  

Table of Contents   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     

3M Company and Subsidiaries   

   Years ended December 31   

The accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this
statement.  

46  

Table of Contents   

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements     

NOTE
1.  Significant Accounting Policies     

Consolidation:    3M is a diversified global manufacturer,
technology innovator and marketer of a wide variety of products. All
significant subsidiaries are consolidated. All significant intercompany
transactions are eliminated. As used herein, the term  3M  or  Company  refers
to 3M Company and subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.  

Foreign
currency translation:    Local currencies generally are considered the functional currencies
outside the United States. Assets and liabilities for operations in
local-currency environments are translated at year-end exchange rates. Income
and expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during
the year. Cumulative translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity.  

Reclassifications:    Certain amounts in the prior years 
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation.  

Use of
estimates:    The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements,
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.  

Cash and
cash equivalents:   
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and temporary investments with
maturities of three months or less when purchased.  

Investments:    Investments primarily include the cash
surrender value of life insurance policies, equity and cost method investments,
and real estate not used in the business. Investments in life insurance are
reported at the amount that could be realized under contract at the balance
sheet date, with any changes in cash surrender value or contract value during
the period accounted for as an adjustment of premiums paid. Available-for-sale
investments are recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses relating to
investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity.  

Inventories:    Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost or market, with cost generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.  

Property, plant and equipment:    Property, plant and equipment, including
capitalized interest and internal engineering costs, are recorded at cost.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment generally is computed using the
straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets. The
estimated useful lives of buildings and improvements primarily range from 10 to
40 years, with the majority in the range of 20 to 40 years. The estimated
useful lives of machinery and equipment primarily range from three to 15 years,
with the majority in the range of five to 10 years. Fully depreciated assets
are retained in property and accumulated depreciation accounts until disposal.
Upon disposal, assets and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and the net amount, less proceeds from disposal, is charged or
credited to operations. Property, plant and equipment amounts are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss would be recognized when the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the
estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the
asset and its eventual disposition. The amount of the impairment loss to be
recorded is calculated by the excess of the asset s carrying value over its
fair value. Fair value is generally determined using a discounted cash flow
analysis.  

Conditional asset retirement obligations:
   Under Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  (FIN 47), a liability is initially
recorded at fair value for an asset retirement obligation associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets in the period in which it is incurred
if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Conditional asset
retirement obligations exist for certain of the Company s long-term assets. The
obligation is initially measured at fair value using expected present value
techniques. Over time the liabilities are accreted for the change in their
present value and the initial capitalized costs are depreciated over the useful
lives of the related assets. FIN 47, was effective December 31, 2005, and
its adoption resulted in the recognition of an asset retirement obligation
liability of $59 million at December 31, 2005, and an after-tax charge of
$35 million for 2005, which was reflected as a cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The asset
retirement obligation liability was $62 million and $59 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2008 and 2007.  

Goodwill:    Goodwill is the excess of cost of an acquired entity over
the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination. Goodwill is not amortized. Goodwill is tested for impairment
annually, and will be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event
occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be
impaired. Impairment testing for goodwill is done at a reporting unit level,
with all goodwill assigned to a   

47  

Table of Contents   

reporting unit. Reporting units are one level below the
business segment level, but can be combined when reporting units within the
same segment have similar economic characteristics. An impairment loss
generally would be recognized when the carrying amount of the reporting unit s
net assets exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The
estimated fair value of a reporting unit is determined using earnings for the
reporting unit multiplied by a price/earnings ratio for comparable industry
groups, or by using a discounted cash flow analysis. The price/earnings ratio
is adjusted downward, if necessary, to take into consideration the market value
of the Company.  

Intangible
assets:    Intangible
assets include patents, tradenames and other intangible assets acquired from an
independent party. Intangible assets with an indefinite life, namely certain
tradenames, are not amortized. Intangible assets with a definite life are
amortized on a straight-line basis, with estimated useful lives ranging from
one to 20 years. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment
annually, and will be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event
occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may
be impaired. Intangible assets with a definite life are tested for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
(asset group) may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the
carrying amount of an asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows used
in determining the fair value of the asset. The amount of the impairment loss
to be recorded is calculated by the excess of the asset s carrying value over
its fair value. Fair value is generally determined using a discounted cash flow
analysis. Costs related to internally developed intangible assets, such as
patents, are expensed as incurred, primarily in  Research, development and
related expenses.   

Revenue
(sales) recognition:   
The Company sells a wide range of products to a diversified base of customers
around the world and has no material concentration of credit risk. Revenue is
recognized when the risks and rewards of
ownership have substantively transferred to customers. This condition normally
is met when the product has been delivered or upon performance of services. The
Company records estimated reductions to revenue or records expense for customer
and distributor incentives, primarily comprised of rebates and free goods, at
the time of the initial sale. These sales incentives are accounted for in
accordance with EITF Issue No. 01-9,  Accounting for Consideration Given
by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor s Products) . The
estimated reductions to revenue for rebates are based on the sales terms,
historical experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the
various markets served. Since the Company serves numerous markets, the rebate
programs offered vary across businesses, but the most common incentive relates
to amounts paid or credited to customers for achieving defined volume levels or
growth objectives. Free goods are accounted for as an expense and recorded in
cost of sales. Sales, use, value-added and other excise taxes are not
recognized in revenue.  

The majority of 3M s
sales agreements are for standard products and services with customer
acceptance occurring upon delivery of the product or performance of the
service. 3M also enters into agreements that contain multiple elements (such as
equipment, installation and service) or non-standard terms and conditions. For
multiple-element arrangements, 3M recognizes revenue for delivered elements
when it has stand-alone value to the customer, the fair values of undelivered
elements are known, customer acceptance of the delivered elements has occurred,
and there are only customary refund or return rights related to the delivered
elements. In addition to the preceding conditions, equipment revenue is not
recorded until the installation has been completed if equipment acceptance is
dependent upon installation, or if installation is essential to the
functionality of the equipment. Installation revenues are not recorded until
installation has been completed. For prepaid service contracts, sales revenue
is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, unless
historical evidence indicates the costs are incurred on other than a
straight-line basis. License fee revenue is recognized as earned, and no
revenue is recognized until the inception of the license term. On occasion,
agreements will contain milestones, or 3M will recognize revenue based on
proportional performance. For these agreements, and depending on the specifics,
3M may recognize revenue upon completion of a substantive milestone, or in proportion
to costs incurred to date compared with the estimate of total costs to be
incurred.  

Accounts
Receivable and Allowances:    Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced
amount and do not bear interest. The Company maintains allowances for bad
debts, cash discounts, product returns and various other items. The allowance
for doubtful accounts and product returns is based on the best estimate of the
amount of probable credit losses in existing accounts receivable and
anticipated sales returns. The Company determines the allowances based on
historical write-off experience by industry and regional economic data and
historical sales returns. The Company reviews the allowance for doubtful
accounts monthly. The Company does not have any significant off-balance-sheet
credit exposure related to its customers.  

Advertising
and merchandising:   
These costs are charged to operations in the year incurred, and totaled $468
million in 2008, $469 million in 2007 and $471 million in 2006.  

Research,
development and related expenses:    These costs are charged to operations in the year
incurred and are shown on a separate line of the Consolidated Statement of
Income. Research, development and related expenses totaled $1.404 billion in
2008, $1.368 billion in 2007 and $1.522 billion in 2006. In 2006, this included
a $95 million in-process research   

48  

Table of Contents   

and development
charge (discussed in Note 2) and $75 million in restructuring actions (Note 4).
Research and development expenses, covering basic scientific research and the
application of scientific advances in the development of new and improved
products and their uses, totaled $851 million in 2008, $788 million in 2007,
and $943 million in 2006. Related expenses primarily include technical support
provided by 3M to customers who are using existing 3M products, and internally
developed patent costs, which include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file,
secure and maintain patents.  

Internal-use software:    The Company capitalizes direct costs of
materials and services used in the development of internal-use software.
Amounts capitalized are amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of
three to five years and are reported as a component of machinery and equipment
within property, plant and equipment.  

Environmental:    Environmental expenditures relating to existing
conditions caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or
future revenues are expensed. Reserves for liabilities for anticipated
remediation costs are recorded on an undiscounted basis when they are probable
and reasonably estimable, generally no later than the completion of feasibility
studies or the Company s commitment to a plan of action. Environmental
expenditures for capital projects that contribute to current or future
operations generally are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated
useful lives.  

Income taxes:    The provision for income taxes is
determined using the asset and liability approach. Under this approach,
deferred income taxes represent the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and
liabilities. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred
tax assets when uncertainty regarding their reliability exists. As of December 31,
2008, no significant valuation allowances were recorded. As of January 1,
2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 .
3M follows FIN 48 guidance to record uncertainties and judgments in the
application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions (refer to
Note 8 for additional information).  

Earnings per share:    The difference in the weighted average shares outstanding
for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is attributable to the
dilution associated with the Company s stock-based compensation plans. Certain
Management Stock Ownership Program average options outstanding during the years
2008, 2007 and 2006 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share because they would not have had a dilutive effect (41.0 million
average options for 2008, 21.6 million average options for 2007, and 31.5
million average options for 2006). As discussed in Note 10, the conditions for
conversion related to the Company s Convertible Notes have never been met. If
the conditions for conversion are met, 3M may choose to pay in cash and/or
common stock; however, if this occurs, the Company has the intent and ability
to settle this debt security in cash. Accordingly, there was no impact on 3M s
diluted earnings per share. The
computations for basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31
follow:  

Earnings Per Share Computations   

Stock-based
compensation:    The
Company recognizes compensation expense for both its General Employees  Stock
Purchase Plan (GESPP) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). Under SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment , and related interpretations, the fair value of the
share-based compensation is determined at the grant date and the recognition of
the related expense is recorded over the period in which the share-based
compensation vests. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R effective January 1,
2006, using the modified retrospective method. All prior periods were restated
to give effect to the fair-value-based method of accounting for awards granted
in fiscal years   

49  

Table of Contents   

beginning on or
after January 1, 1995. The Company elected to use a specified  short-cut 
method to calculate the historical pool of windfall tax benefits upon adoption
of SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 16 for additional information.  

Comprehensive
income:    Total
comprehensive income and the components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in
Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income. Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) is composed of foreign currency translation effects (including
hedges of net investments in international companies), defined benefit pension
and postretirement plan adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale debt and equity securities, and unrealized gains and losses
on cash flow hedging instruments.  

Derivatives and hedging
activities:    All
derivative instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  are recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value. The Company uses interest rate swaps, currency and
commodity price swaps, and foreign currency forward and option contracts to
manage risks generally associated with foreign exchange rate, interest rate and
commodity market volatility. All hedging instruments that qualify for hedge
accounting are designated and effective as hedges, in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. If the underlying hedged transaction
ceases to exist, all changes in fair value of the related derivatives that have
not been settled are recognized in current earnings. Instruments that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market with changes recognized in
current earnings. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes and is not a party to leveraged derivatives.
However, the Company does have contingently convertible debt that, if
conditions for conversion are met, is convertible into shares of 3M common
stock (refer to Note 10 in this document).  

New
Accounting Pronouncements   

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.   FIN 48 was effective as of January 1,
2007. Refer to Note 8 for additional information concerning this standard.  

In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 establishes a single definition of
fair value and a framework for measuring fair value, sets out a fair value
hierarchy to be used to classify the source of information used in fair value
measurements, and requires new disclosures of assets and liabilities measured
at fair value based on their level in the hierarchy. This statement applies
under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value
measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Positions (FSPs) No. 157-1
and No. 157-2, which, respectively, remove leasing transactions from the
scope of SFAS No. 157 and defer its effective date for one year relative
to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities. As a result, the application of
the definition of fair value and related disclosures of SFAS No. 157 (as
impacted by these two FSPs) was effective for 3M beginning January 1, 2008
on a prospective basis with respect to fair value measurements of (a) nonfinancial
assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
Company s financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually) and (b) all
financial assets and liabilities. This adoption did not have a material impact
on 3M s consolidated results of operations or financial condition. The
remaining aspects of SFAS No. 157 for which the effective date was
deferred under FSP No. 157-2 have been evaluated by the Company. Areas
impacted by the deferral relate to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value, but are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis. This deferral applies to such items as nonfinancial assets
and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination (but
not measured at fair value in subsequent periods) or nonfinancial long-lived
asset groups measured at fair value for an impairment assessment. The effects
of these remaining aspects of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied by 3M to fair
value measurements prospectively beginning January 1, 2009. The Company
does not expect them to have a material impact on 3M s consolidated results of
operations or financial condition. Refer to Note 13 for disclosures required by
this new pronouncement.  

In early October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 157-3,
 Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset
is Not Active,  which amended SFAS No. 157 to illustrate key considerations
in determining the fair value of a financial asset in an inactive market. This
FSP was effective for 3M beginning with the quarter ended September 30,
2008. Its additional guidance was incorporated in the measurements of fair
value of applicable financial assets disclosed in Note 13 and did not have a
material impact on 3M s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition.  

In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106 and 132(R).  Refer to Note 11 for additional information concerning
this standard.  

In February 2007,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities . SFAS No. 159 permits an entity to choose, at
specified election dates, to measure eligible financial   

50  

Table of Contents   

instruments and certain
other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at
fair value. An entity reports unrealized gains and losses on items for which
the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting
date. Upfront costs and fees related to items for which the fair value option
is elected are recognized in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS No. 159
also established presentation and disclosure requirements designed to
facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement
attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 was
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007 (January 1, 2008 for 3M) and interim periods within those fiscal
years. At the effective date, an entity could elect the fair value option for
eligible items that existed at that date. The entity was required to report the
effect of the first remeasurement to fair value as a cumulative-effect
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The Company did not
elect the fair value option for eligible items that existed as of January 1,
2008.  

In June 2007, the
FASB s Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 07-3,
 Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used
in Future Research and Development Activities  that would require nonrefundable
advance payments made by the Company for future R D activities to be
capitalized and recognized as an expense as the goods or services are received
by the Company. EITF Issue No. 07-3 was effective for 3M with respect to
new arrangements entered into beginning January 1, 2008. EITF Issue No. 07-3
did not have a material impact on 3M s consolidated results of operations or
financial condition.  

In December 2007,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R,  Business Combinations,  which changes the
accounting for business acquisitions. SFAS No. 141R requires the acquiring
entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction and establishes the
acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Certain provisions
of this standard will, among other things, impact the determination of
acquisition-date fair value of consideration paid in a business combination
(including contingent consideration); exclude transaction costs from
acquisition accounting; and change accounting practices for acquired
contingencies, acquisition-related restructuring costs, in-process research and
development, indemnification assets, and tax benefits. For 3M, SFAS No. 141R
is effective for business combinations and adjustments to an acquired entity s
deferred tax asset and liability balances occurring after December 31,
2008. This standard will have no immediate impact upon adoption by 3M, but will
result in items such as transaction and acquisition related-restructuring costs
with respect to business combinations closing after December 31, 2008
being charged to expense when incurred. The Company considers this standard
when evaluating potential future transactions to which it would apply.  

In December 2007,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51,  which establishes new
standards governing the accounting for and reporting of noncontrolling
interests (NCIs) in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries and the loss of
control of subsidiaries. Certain provisions of this standard indicate, among
other things, that NCIs (previously referred to as minority interests) be
treated as a separate component of equity, not as a liability; that increases
and decreases in the parent s ownership interest that leave control intact be
treated as equity transactions, rather than as step acquisitions or dilution
gains or losses; and that losses of a partially owned consolidated subsidiary
be allocated to the NCI even when such allocation might result in a deficit
balance. This standard also requires changes to certain presentation and
disclosure requirements. For 3M, SFAS No. 160 is effective beginning January 1,
2009. The provisions of the standard are to be applied to all NCIs prospectively,
except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which are to be
applied retrospectively to all periods presented. As a result, upon adoption,
3M expects to retroactively reclassify the  Minority interest in subsidiaries 
balance currently included in the  Other liabilities  section of the
consolidated balance sheet to a new component of equity with respect to NCIs in
consolidated subsidiaries. This adoption will impact the presentation of 3M s
consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of income; however, the
Company does not believe it will have a material impact on 3M s consolidated
financial position or results of operations.  

In December 2007,
the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force consensus on EITF Issue No. 07-1,
 Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements  that discusses how parties to a
collaborative arrangement (which does not establish a legal entity within such
arrangement) should account for various activities. The consensus indicates
that costs incurred and revenues generated from transactions with third parties
(i.e. parties outside of the collaborative arrangement) should be reported by
the collaborators on the respective line items in their income statements
pursuant to EITF Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal
Versus Net as an Agent.  Additionally, the consensus provides that income
statement characterization of payments between the participants in a
collaborative arrangement should be based upon existing authoritative
pronouncements; analogy to such pronouncements if not within their scope; or a
reasonable, rational, and consistently applied accounting policy election. EITF
Issue No. 07-1 is effective for 3M beginning January 1, 2009 and is
to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented for collaborative
arrangements existing as of the date of adoption. The Company does not expect
EITF Issue No. 07-1 to have a material impact on 3M s consolidated results
of operations or financial condition.  

51  

Table of Contents   

In March 2008, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,  which will require increased disclosures about an entity s
strategies and objectives for using derivative instruments; the location and
amounts of derivative instruments in an entity s financial statements; how
derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities;  and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect its financial position,
financial performance, and cash flows. Certain disclosures will also be
required with respect to derivative features that are credit-risk-related. SFAS
No. 161 is effective for 3M beginning January 1, 2009 on a
prospective basis. Since this standard impacts disclosures only, the adoption
will not have a material impact on 3M s consolidated results of operations or
financial condition.  

In April 2008, the
FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of
Intangible Assets,  which amends the list of factors an entity should consider
in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful
life of recognized intangible assets under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets.  The new guidance applies to (1) intangible
assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets and (2) intangible
assets acquired in both business combinations and asset acquisitions. Under FSP
No. FAS 142-3, entities estimating the useful life of a recognized
intangible asset must consider their historical experience in renewing or
extending similar arrangements or, in the absence of historical experience,
must consider assumptions that market participants would use about renewal or
extension. For 3M, this FSP will require certain additional disclosures
beginning January 1, 2009 and application to useful life estimates
prospectively for intangible assets acquired after December 31, 2008. The
Company does not expect this standard to have a material impact on 3M s
consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  

In
May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14-1,  Accounting for
Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion
(Including Partial Cash Settlement).  This FSP applies to convertible debt
securities that, upon conversion by the holder, may be settled by the issuer
fully or partially in cash (rather than settled fully in shares) and specifies
that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability
and equity components in a manner that reflects the issuer s nonconvertible
debt borrowing rate when related interest cost is recognized. This FSP is
effective for 3M beginning January 1, 2009 with retrospective application
to all periods presented. This standard impacts the Company s  Convertible
Notes  (refer to Note 10 for more detail), and will require that additional
interest expense essentially equivalent to the portion of issuance proceeds be
retroactively allocated to the instrument s equity component and be recognized
over the period from the Convertible Notes  issuance on November 15, 2002
through November 15, 2005 (the first date holders of these Notes had the
ability to put them back to 3M). 3M has evaluated the impact of this standard
and anticipates that its retrospective application will have no impact on
results of operations for periods following 2005, but on post-2005 consolidated
balance sheets this will result in an increase of approximately $22 million in
opening additional paid in capital and a corresponding decrease in opening
retained earnings.  

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the Emerging
Issues Task Force (EITF) consensus on Issue No. 08-6,  Equity Method
Investment Accounting Considerations  (EITF 08-6) which addresses certain
effects of SFAS Nos. 141R and 160 on an entity s accounting for equity-method
investments. The consensus indicates, among other things, that transaction
costs for an investment should be included in the cost of the equity-method
investment (and not expensed) and shares subsequently issued by the
equity-method investee that reduce the investor s ownership percentage should
be accounted for as if the investor had sold a proportionate share of its
investment, with gains or losses recorded through earnings. For 3M, EITF 08-6
is effective for transactions occurring after December 31, 2008. The
Company does not expect this standard to have a material impact on 3M s
consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  

In November 2008, the FASB ratified the EITF consensus
on Issue No. 08-7,  Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets  (EITF
08-7). The consensus addresses the accounting for an intangible asset acquired
in a business combination or asset acquisition that an entity does not intend
to use or intends to hold to prevent others from obtaining access (a defensive
intangible asset). Under EITF 08-7, a defensive intangible asset would need to
be accounted as a separate unit of accounting and would be assigned a useful
life based on the period over which the asset diminishes in value. For 3M, EITF
08-6 is effective for transactions occurring after December 31, 2008. The
Company considers this standard in terms of evaluating potential future
transactions to which it would apply.  

In December 2008,
the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about
Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets . This FSP requires additional disclosures
about plan assets for sponsors of defined benefit pension and postretirement
plans including expanded information regarding investment strategies, major
categories of plan assets, and concentrations of risk within plan assets.
Additionally, this FSP requires disclosures similar to those required under
SFAS No. 157 with respect to the fair value of plan assets such as the
inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value and information with
respect to classification of plan assets in terms of the hierarchy of the
source of information used to determine their value (see Note 13). The
disclosures under this FSP are required for annual periods ending after December 15,
2009. 3M is currently evaluating the requirements of these additional disclosures.  

52  

Table of Contents   

In January 2009, the
FASB issued FSP No. EITF 99-20-1,  Amendments to the Impairment Guidance
of EITF Issue No. 99-20  (FSP No. EITF 99-20-1). This FSP provided
additional guidance with respect to how entities determine whether an  other-than-temporary
impairment  (OTTI) exists for certain beneficial interests in a securitized
transaction, such as asset-backed securities and mortgage-backed securities,
that (1) do not have a high quality rating or (2) can be
contractually prepaid or otherwise settled such that the holder would not
recover substantially all of its investment. FSP No. EITF 99-20-1 amended
EITF Issue No. 99-20 to more closely align its OTTI guidance with that of
SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investment in Debt and Equity
Securities.  This FSP was effective for 3M prospectively beginning October 1,
2008. The Company considered this FSP s additional interpretation of EITF Issue
No. 99-20 when classifying respective additional impairments as  temporary 
or  other-than-temporary  beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008. This FSP
had no material impact on such classifications.  

NOTE
2.  Acquisitions and Divestitures     

Divestitures:   

In June 2008, 3M completed the sale of HighJump Software, a 3M
Company, to Battery Ventures, a technology venture capital and private equity
firm. 3M received proceeds of $85 million for this transaction and recognized,
net of assets sold, transaction and other costs, a pre-tax loss of $23 million
(recorded in the Safety, Security and Protection Services segment) in 2008.  

In June 2007,
3M completed the sale of its Opticom Priority Control Systems and Canoga
Traffic Detection businesses to TorQuest Partners Inc., a Toronto-based
investment firm. 3M received proceeds of $80 million for this transaction and
recognized, net of assets sold, transaction and other costs, a pre-tax gain of
$68 million (recorded in the Display and Graphics segment) in 2007.  

In January 2007,
3M completed the sale of its global branded pharmaceuticals business in Europe
to Meda AB. 3M received proceeds of $817 million for this transaction and
recognized, net of assets sold, a pre-tax gain of $781 million (recorded in the
Health Care segment) in 2007.  

In December 2006,
3M completed the sale of its global branded pharmaceuticals business in the
United States, Canada, and Latin America region and the Asia Pacific region,
including Australia and South Africa. 3M received proceeds of $1.209 billion
for this transaction and recognized, net of assets sold, a pre-tax gain of
$1.074 billion (recorded in Health Care Business) in 2006.  

Buyer and sale price
information by region is as follows:  

Meda AB acquired 3M s pharmaceuticals business in
Europe for $817 million in 2007.  

Graceway Pharmaceuticals Inc. acquired 3M s
pharmaceutical operations in the United States, Canada, and Latin America for
$860 million in 2006.  

Ironbridge Capital and Archer Capital acquired 3M s
pharmaceuticals business in the Asia Pacific region, including Australia and
South Africa for $349 million in 2006.  

The agreements are
the result of a review of strategic options for the branded pharmaceuticals
business and its immune response modifier (IRM) platform that 3M announced in April 2006.
Under the agreements, the purchasers acquired regional marketing and
intellectual property rights for 3M s well-known branded pharmaceuticals,
including Aldara, Difflam, Duromine, Tambocor, Maxair, Metrogel-Vaginal and
Minitran. As part of the transaction, Graceway Pharmaceuticals also acquired
the rights to certain IRM molecules.  

In connection with
these transactions, 3M entered into agreements whereby its Drug Delivery
Systems Division became a source of supply to the acquiring companies. Because
of the extent of 3M cash flows from these agreements in relation to those of
the disposed-of businesses, the operations of the branded pharmaceuticals
business are not classified as discontinued operations. See Note 4 for further
discussion of restructuring actions that resulted from the divestiture of the
Company s global branded pharmaceuticals business.  

2008
acquisitions:   

During 2008, 3M completed
18 business combinations. The purchase price paid for business combinations
(net of cash acquired) and certain contingent consideration paid during the
twelve months ended December 31, 2008 for previous acquisitions aggregated
to $1.394 billion.  

The largest of these 2008
acquisitions was the April 2008 purchase of 100 percent of the outstanding
shares of Aearo Holding Corp. (Safety, Security and Protection Services
Business), the parent company of Aearo Technologies Inc. (hereafter referred to
as Aearo), a manufacturer of personal protection and energy absorbing products.
Cash paid, net   

53  

Table of Contents   

of cash acquired, for
Aearo totaled approximately $523 million and debt assumed from Aearo totaled
approximately $684 million, which was immediately paid off.  

The 17 additional
business combinations are summarized as follows:  

(1) In March 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of Hitech
Polymers Inc., a manufacturer of specialty thermoplastic polymers and provider
of toll thermoplastic compounding services based in Hebron, Kentucky.  

(2) In April 2008,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Les Entreprises Solumed Inc., a Quebec-based developer and marketer of
leading-edge medical products designed to prevent infections in operating rooms
and hospitals.  

(3) In April 2008,
3M (Consumer and Office Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding
shares of Kolors Kevarkian, S.A., a manufacturer of branded floor cleaning
tools based in Argentina.  

(4) In July 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of K H Surface Technologies Pty. Ltd., an Australian-based
manufacturing company specializing in a range of repair products for the
professional do-it-yourself automotive refinish markets.  

(5) In July 2008,
3M (Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) purchased 100 percent of
the outstanding shares of Quest Technologies Inc., a manufacturer of
environmental monitoring equipment, including noise, heat stress and vibration
monitors that is headquartered in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin.  

(6) In July 2008,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
IMTEC Corp., a manufacturer of dental implants and cone beam computed
tomography scanning equipment for dental and medical radiology headquartered in
Ardmore, Oklahoma.  

(7) In August 2008,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
TOP-Service f r Lingualtechnik GMbH, an orthodontic technology and services
company based in Bad Essen, Germany offering a digital lingual orthodontic
solution.  

(8) In August 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Polyfoam Products Inc., a structural adhesives company
specializing in foam adhesives for tile roofing and other adhesive products for
the building industry that is headquartered in Tomball, Texas.  

(9) In August 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Dedication to Detail, Inc., a Philadelphia-based
manufacturer of paint finishing systems, including buffing and polishing pads.  

(10) In September 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Ligacon AG, a Switzerland-based manufacturer and supplier
of filtration systems and filter elements for the pharmaceutical, biotech and
general industrial markets.  

(11) In October 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of EMFI S.A. and SAPO S.A.S., manufacturers of
polyurethane-based structural adhesives and sealants, which are headquartered in
Haguenau, France.  

(12) In October 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Meguiar s Inc., a 100-year-old business that manufactures
the leading Meguiar s brand of car care products for cleaning and protecting
automotive surfaces, which is headquartered in Irvine, California.  

(13) In November 2008,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased certain assets of Food Diagnostics AS, a
provider of food diagnostics products and services for the food safety industry,
which is headquartered in Oslo, Norway.  

(14) In November 2008,
3M (Electro and Communications Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Grafoplast S.p.A, a manufacturer of wire identification
systems for the wire and cable market, which is headquartered in Predosa,
Italy.  

(15) In December 2008,
3M (Display and Graphics Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding
shares of Financiere Burgienne, a provider of finished license plates under the
FAAB and FABRICAUTO brands in France.  

(16) In December 2008,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of ABRASIVOS S.A., a manufacturer of coated abrasives,
headquartered in Lima, Peru.  

(17) In December 2008,
3M (Consumer and Office Business) purchased certain assets of the Futuro health
supports and compression hosiery product line business, headquartered in
Cincinnati, OH, from Beiersdorf AG.  

Purchased identifiable
intangible assets totaled $794 million and will be amortized on a straight-line
basis over a weighted-average life of 13 years (lives ranging from 1 to 19
years). Acquired patents of $40 million will be amortized over a
weighted-average life of 11 years and other acquired intangibles of $696
million, primarily customer relationships and tradenames, will be amortized
over a weighted-average life of 13 years. Indefinite-lived assets of $58
million were purchased in the Meguiar s acquisition detailed above, which
relate to a well recognized brand name for a company that has been in existence
for more than 100 years. Pro forma information related to the above
acquisitions is not included because the impact on the Company s consolidated
results of operations is not considered to be material. In-process research and
development charges associated with these business combinations were not
material.  

54  

Table of Contents   

The purchase price
allocation for all 2008 business combinations is considered preliminary, as
adjustments within the allocation period are possible. The impact on the
consolidated balance sheet of the purchase price allocations related to
acquisitions, including adjustments relative to other acquisitions within the
allocation period, follows:  

In addition to business combinations,
3M periodically acquires certain tangible and/or intangible assets and
purchases interests in certain enterprises that do not otherwise qualify for
accounting as business combinations. These transactions are largely reflected
as additional asset purchase and investment activity.  

2007/2006
acquisitions:   

During 2007, the
purchase price paid for business combinations totaled $539 million, net of cash
acquired, plus approximately 150 thousand shares of 3M common stock, which had
a market value of approximately $13 million.  

The 16 business
combinations completed during 2007 are summarized as follows:  

1) In February 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of
Accuspray Application Technologies Inc., a manufacturer of spray paint
equipment with a wide array of spray guns for architectural, automotive
refinishing, industrial and woodworking applications.  

2) In February 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased Sealed Air Corporation s
50 percent interest in PolyMask Corporation, a joint venture between 3M and
Sealed Air that produces protective films. The acquisition of Sealed Air s
interest results in 100 percent ownership by 3M.  

3) In February 2007,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Acolyte Biomedica Ltd., a Salisbury, U.K.-based provider of an automated
microbial detection platform that aids in the rapid detection, diagnosis, and
treatment of infectious diseases.  

4) In May 2007, 3M
(Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) purchased 100 percent of
the outstanding shares of E Wood Holdings PLC, a North Yorkshire, UK-based
manufacturer of high performance protective coatings for oil, gas, water, rail
and automotive industries.  

5) In May 2007, 3M
(Electro and Communications Business) purchased certain assets of Innovative
Paper Technologies LLC, a manufacturer of inorganic-based technical papers,
boards and laminates for a wide variety of high temperature applications and
Powell LLC, a supplier of non-woven polyester mats for the electrical industry.  

6) In May 2007, 3M
(Health Care Business) purchased certain assets of Articulos de Papel DMS
Chile, a Santiago, Chile-based manufacturer of disposable surgical packs,
drapes, gowns and kits.  

7) In June 2007, 3M
(Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of Diamond
Productions Inc., a manufacturer of superabrasive diamond and cubic boron
nitride wheels and tools for dimensioning and finishing hard-to-grind materials
in metalworking, woodworking and stone fabrication markets in exchange for
approximately 150 thousand shares of 3M common stock, which had a market value
of $13 million at the acquisition measurement date and was previously held as
3M treasury stock.  

8) In July 2007, 3M
(Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) purchased 100 percent of
the outstanding shares of Rochford Thompson Equipment Ltd., a manufacturer of
optical character recognition passport readers used by airlines and immigration
authorities, headquartered in Newbury, U.K.  

55  

Table of Contents   

9) In August 2007,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased certain assets of Neoplast Co. Ltd., a
manufacturer/distributor of surgical tapes and dressings and first aid bandages
for both the professional and consumer markets across the Asia Pacific region.  

10) In October 2007,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Abzil Industria e Comercio Ltda., a manufacturer of orthodontic products based
in Sao Jose do Rio Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil.  

11) In October 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Venture Tape Corp. and certain related entities, a global
provider of pressure sensitive adhesive tapes based in Rockland, Mass.  

12) In October 2007,
3M (Display and Graphics Business) purchased certain assets of Macroworx Media
Pvt Ltd., a software company that specializes in the design and development of
digital signage solutions based in Bangalore, India.  

13) In October 2007,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Lingualcare Inc., a Dallas-based orthodontic technology and services company
offering the iBraces system, a customized, lingual orthodontic solution.  

14) In November 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of
Standard Abrasives, a manufacturer of coated abrasive specialties and non-woven
abrasive products for the metalworking industry headquartered in Simi Valley,
Ca.  

15) In November 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Unifam Sp. z o.o., a manufacturer of cut-off wheels,
depressed center grinding wheels and flap discs based in Poland.  

16) In November 2007,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of Bondo
Corp., a manufacturer of auto body repair products for the automotive aftermarket
and various other professional and consumer applications based in Atlanta, Ga.  

Purchased
identifiable intangible assets for the 16 business combinations closed during
the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 totaled $124 million and will be
amortized on a straight-line basis over lives ranging from 2 to 10 years
(weighted-average life of six years).  

For
2007 and 2006, p  ro
forma information related to acquisitions was not included because the impact
on the Company s consolidated results of operations was not considered to be
material. There were no material in-process research and development charges
associated with 2007, while 2006 included $95 million in charges for the
Brontes Technologies Inc. acquisition. The impact on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet of the purchase price allocations related to acquisitions and adjustments
relative to other acquisitions within the allocation period follows:  

56  

Table of
Contents   

During the 12
months ended December 31, 2006, 3M completed 19 business combinations for
a total purchase price of $888 million, net of cash acquired. Purchased
identifiable intangible assets of $282 million for these acquisitions will be
amortized on a straight-line basis over lives ranging from 1 to 17 years (weighted-average
life of 9 years).  

The largest of these
acquisitions was the August 2006 purchase of 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Security Printing and Systems Limited (Safety, Security
and Protection Services Business) from authentos GmbH, Germany. The acquired
company is a producer of finished, personalized passports and secure cards.  

In October 2006, 3M
(Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Brontes Technologies Inc. (Brontes), a Lexington, Massachusetts-based developer
of proprietary 3-D imaging technology for dental and orthodontic applications,
for $95 million in cash. Brontes was a  development stage enterprise  that did
not yet have revenues from its principal operations and the technology acquired
did not have any alternative future use. This transaction resulted in a 2006
charge of $95 million, reflecting the write-off of acquired in-process research
and development costs, which are recognized as research, development and
related expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income.  

The 17 additional
business combinations are summarized as follows:  

1) In January 2006,
3M (Consumer and Office Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding
common shares of Interchemall Dom., a provider of household cleaning products
based in Poland.  

2) In March 2006, 3M
(Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of General
Industrial Diamond Company Inc., a U.S. operation. The acquired company is a
manufacturer of superabrasive grinding wheels, dressing tools and machines used
to dimension and finish hard-to-grind materials in the industrial and
commercial markets.  

3) In April 2006, 3M
(Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of OMNII
Oral Pharmaceuticals, a provider of differentiated preventive dental products,
solutions and support for dental professionals.  

4) In April 2006, 3M
(Health Care Business) purchased certain assets of ClozeX Medical LLC, a
provider of unique skin closure devices to treat lacerations and close surgical
incisions. The agreement gives 3M exclusive worldwide rights for the
manufacturing and distribution of ClozeX Wound Closures.  

5) In June 2006, 3M
(Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of SBG
(Software und Beratung im Gesundheitswesen) GmbH, a Berlin-based developer of
software for managing diagnosis-related information in hospitals.  

6) In June 2006, 3M
(Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) purchased certain assets of
POMP Medical and Occupational Health Products LLC, a Porto Alegre, Brazil-based
provider of earplugs, eyewear and hand cream.  

7) In July 2006, 3M
(Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased certain assets of Pinnacle
Distribution Concepts Inc., a leading transportation management system (TMS)
provider specializing in the delivery of Web-based,  on-demand  solutions.  

8) In July 2006, 3M
(Electro and Communications Business) purchased certain assets of SCC Products
Inc. and JJ Converting LLC, both based in Sanford, N.C. SCC Products Inc. is a
provider of flexible static control packaging and workstation products for
electronic devices. JJ Converting LLC is a producer of films used to make
static control bags.  

9) In August 2006,
3M (Display and Graphics Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding
shares of Archon Technologies Inc., a Denver, Colorado-based provider of
enterprise software solutions for motor vehicle agencies.  

10) In August 2006,
3M (Safety, Security and Protection Services Business) purchased 100 percent of
the outstanding shares of Aerion Technologies, a Denver, Colorado-based maker
of safety products, including heat stress monitors, thermal cameras and carbon
monoxide detectors.  

11) In September 2006,
3M (Electro and Communications Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Credence Technologies Inc., a Soquel, California-based
provider of instruments and high-end monitoring equipment for electrostatic
discharge control and electromagnetic compliance.  

12) In October 2006,
3M (Consumer and Office Business) purchased certain assets of Nylonge Corp., a
global provider of household cleaning products, including cellulose sponges,
scrub sponges and household wipes.  

13) In October 2006,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of NorthStar Chemicals, Inc., a Cartersville,
Georgia-based adhesive manufacturer.  

14) In November 2006,
3M (Industrial and Transportation Business) purchased 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Global Beverage Group Inc., a Canadian-based provider of
delivery management software solutions for the direct-store-delivery of
consumer packaged goods.  

15) In November 2006,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
Biotrace International PLC, a Bridgend, UK-based manufacturer and supplier of
industrial microbiology products used in food processing safety, health care,
industrial hygiene and defense applications.  

16) In December 2006,
3M (Electro and Communications Business) purchased certain assets of Mahindra
Engineering and Chemical Products LTD, an India-based manufacturer of cable
jointing kits and accessories.  

57  

Table of Contents   

17) In December 2006,
3M (Health Care Business) purchased 100 percent of the outstanding shares of
SoftMed Systems Inc., a Maryland-based provider of health information
management software and services that improve the workflow and efficiency of
health care organizations.  

The 2006 impact on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the purchase price allocations related to the
2006 acquisitions and adjustments relative to other acquisitions within the
allocation period were provided in the preceding table.  

NOTE
3.  Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

As discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, effective in the first quarter of 2008, 3M made certain product
moves between its business segments. Since there were no material changes in
goodwill balances between business segments, amounts presented in the table
that follows have not been reclassified. For those changes that resulted in
reporting unit changes, the Company applied the relative fair value method to
determine the impact to reporting units. SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,  requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least
annually and when reporting units are changed. During the first quarter of
2008, the Company completed its assessment of any potential goodwill impairment
under the new structure and determined that no impairment existed. The Company
completed its annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2008 and
determined that no impairment existed.  

Purchased goodwill from acquisitions totaled $1.392 billion
in 2008, $34 million of which is deductible for tax purposes. Purchased
goodwill from acquisitions totaled $326 million in 2007, $55 million of which
is deductible for tax purposes. The amounts in the  Translation and other 
column in the following table primarily relate to changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, except for the $77 million decrease in goodwill related to the
second-quarter 2008 sale of 3M s HighJump Software business (included in the
Safety, Security and Protection Services business). The goodwill balance by
business segment follows:  

Goodwill   

Acquired
Intangible Assets   

For 2008, acquired intangible asset activity
through business combinations increased balances by $794 million, while the
sale of 3M s HighJump Software business reduced net intangible asset balances
by $23 million. Balances are also impacted by changes in foreign currency
exchange rates. The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of acquired
intangible assets as of December 31  :  

58  

Table of
Contents   

Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets increased
significantly in 2008 due to the significant amount of acquired intangibles in
2008 (Note 2). Amortization expense for the years ended December 31
follows:  

Expected amortization expense for acquired intangible assets recorded as
of December 31, 2008 follows:  

The preceding expected amortization expense is an estimate. Actual
amounts of amortization expense may differ from estimated amounts due to
additional intangible asset acquisitions, changes in foreign currency exchange
rates, impairment of intangible assets, accelerated amortization of intangible
assets and other events.  

NOTE
4.  Restructuring Actions and Exit
Activities     

Restructuring actions and exit activities generally include significant
actions involving employee-related severance charges, contract termination
costs, and impairment of assets associated with such actions.  

Employee-related
severance charges are largely based upon distributed employment policies and
substantive severance plans and are reflected in the quarter in which
management approves the associated actions. Severance amounts for which
affected employees were required to render service in order to receive benefits
at their termination dates were measured at the date such benefits were
communicated to the applicable employees and recognized as expense over the
employees  remaining service periods.  

Contract
termination and other charges primarily reflect costs to terminate a contract
before the end of its term (measured at fair value at the time the Company
provided notice to the counterparty) or costs that will continue to be incurred
under the contract for its remaining term without economic benefit to the
Company. As discussed in accounting policies in Note 1, asset impairment
charges related to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment reflect
the excess of the assets  carrying values over their fair values.  

The following provides information, respectively, concerning the Company s
fourth-quarter 2008 restructuring actions, its 2006/2007 restructuring actions,
and its exit activities during 2008 and 2007.  

2008 Restructuring Actions:   

During the fourth quarter of 2008, management approved and committed to
undertake certain restructuring actions. Due to the rapid decline in global
business activity in the fourth quarter of 2008, 3M aggressively reduced its
cost structure and rationalized several facilities, including manufacturing,
technical and office facilities. 3M announced the elimination of more than
2,400 positions across all geographic areas, with particular attention in the
developed areas of the world that have and are experiencing large declines in
business activity. These reductions included both   corporate staff overhead reductions and
business-specific reduction actions, as all business segments were impacted. Of these employment reductions, about
31 percent are in the United States, 29 percent in Europe, 24 percent in Latin
America and Canada, and 16 percent in the Asia Pacific area. These restructuring actions resulted in a
fourth-quarter pre-tax charge of $229 million, with $186 million for
employee-related items/benefits and other, and $43 million related to fixed
asset impairments. The majority of the employee related items and benefits are
expected to be paid out in cash in the first six months of 2009. Cash
payments in 2008 related to this fourth-quarter restructuring were not
material.  

59  

Table of Contents   

Components of
these restructuring actions are summarized by business segment as follows:  

Restructuring Actions   

The preceding
charges were recorded in cost of sales ($84 million), selling, general and
administrative expenses ($135 million), and research, development and related
expenses ($10 million).  

2006/2007 Restructuring Actions:   

During the fourth quarter of 2006 and the first six months of 2007,
management approved and committed to undertake the following   restructuring actions:  

Pharmaceuticals business actions   employee-related,
asset impairment and other costs pertaining to the Company s exit of its
branded pharmaceuticals operations. These costs included severance and benefits
for pharmaceuticals business employees who are not obtaining employment with
the buyers as well as impairment charges associated with certain assets not
transferred to the buyers.  

Overhead reduction actions   employee-related costs
for severance and benefits, costs associated with actions to reduce the Company s
cost structure.  

Business-specific actions   employee-related costs for
severance and benefits, fixed and intangible asset impairments, certain
contractual obligations, and expenses from the exit of certain product lines.  

60  

Table of
Contents   

Actions with
respect to the 2006/2007 restructuring plan were substantially completed in
2007. Components of these restructuring actions include:  

Restructuring
Actions   

61  

Table of Contents   

Employee-   

Contract   

Related Items   

Terminations   

Asset   

(Millions)   

and Benefits   

and Other   

Impairments   

Total   

Accrued
  liability balances as of Dec. 31, 2007:   

Pharmaceuticals
  business actions  

$  

5  

$  

$  

$  

5  

Overhead
  reduction actions  

10  

10  

Business-specific
  actions  

5  

5  

Total accrued
  liability balance  

$  

20  

$  

$  

$  

20  

Cash
  payments in 2008:   

Pharmaceuticals
  business actions  

$  

(5  

)  

$  

$  

$  

(5  

)  

Overhead
  reduction actions  

(10  

)  

(10  

)  

Business-specific
  actions  

(4  

)  

(4  

)  

2008 cash
  payments  

$  

(19  

)  

$  

$  

$  

(19  

)  

Accrued
  liability balances as of Dec. 31, 2008:   

Pharmaceuticals
  business actions  

$  

$  

$  

$  

Overhead reduction
  actions  

Business-specific
  actions  

1  

1  

Total accrued
  liability balance  

$  

1  

$  

$  

$  

1  

Income
statement line in which the preceding 2007 and 2006 expenses (credits) are
reflected:   

The
amount of expenses (credits) incurred in 2007 and 2006 associated with the
preceding are reflected in the Company s business segments as follows:   

In connection with
this targeted 2006/2007 restructuring plan, the Company eliminated a total of
approximately 1,900 positions from various functions within the Company.
Approximately 390 positions were pharmaceuticals business employees,
approximately 960 positions related primarily to corporate staff overhead
reductions, and approximately 550 positions were business-specific reduction
actions. Of the 1,900 employment reductions, about 58 percent are in the United
States, 21 percent in Europe, 12 percent in Latin America and Canada, and 9
percent in the Asia Pacific area. As a result of the second-quarter 2007
phaseout of operations at a New Jersey roofing granule facility and the sale of
the Company s Opticom Priority Control Systems and Canoga Traffic Detection
businesses, the Company eliminated approximately 100 additional positions.  

Non-cash
employee-related changes in 2007 and 2006 primarily relate to special
termination pension and medical benefits granted to certain U.S. eligible
employees. These pension and medical benefits were reflected as a component of
the benefit obligation of the Company s pension and medical plans as of December 31,
2007 and 2006. In addition, these changes also reflect non-cash stock option
expense due to the reclassification of certain employees age 50 and older to
retiree status, resulting in a modification of their original stock option
awards for accounting purposes.  

62  

Table of
Contents   

Business-specific
asset impairment charges for 2007 totaled $35 million. This included charges of
$24 million related to property, plant and equipment associated with the
Company s decision to phaseout operations at a New Jersey roofing granule
facility (Safety, Security and Protection Services segment) and charges of $11
million ($10 million related to property, plant and equipment and $1 million
related to intangible assets) related to the Company s decision to close an
Electro and Communications facility in Wisconsin.  

Asset impairment
charges in 2006 associated with the pharmaceuticals business and business-specific
actions include $109 million relative to property, plant and equipment; $30
million relative to intangible assets; and $5 million relative to other assets.
The pharmaceuticals business asset impairment charges are for certain assets
not transferred to the buyers and primarily relate to the write-down of the
assets to salvage value. The business-specific asset impairment charges
primarily relate to decisions the Company made in the fourth quarter of 2006 to
exit certain marginal product lines in the Display and Graphics segment and
Electro and Communications segment.  

Exit Activities:   

During the second
and third quarters of 2008, management approved and committed to undertake
certain exit activities, which resulted in a pre-tax charge of $68 million. These
charges primarily related to employee-related liabilities and fixed asset
impairments. During the fourth quarter 2008, a pre-tax benefit of $10 million
was recorded, which primarily related to adjustments to employee-related
liabilities for second and third-quarter 2008 exit activities. In total for
2008, these actions resulted in pre-tax charges for Industrial and
Transportation ($26 million); Display and Graphics ($18 million); Health Care
($9 million); Safety, Security and Protection Services ($3 million); and
Corporate and Unallocated ($2 million). These charges were recorded in cost of
sales ($38 million), selling, general and administrative expenses ($17
million), and research, development and related expenses ($3 million).  

During the second
half of 2007, the Company recorded net pre-tax charges of $45 million related
to exit activities. These charges related to employee reductions and fixed
asset impairments, including the consolidation of certain flexible circuit
manufacturing operations ($23 million recorded in the Electro and
Communications segment) and other actions, primarily in the Display and
Graphics segment and Industrial and Transportation segment. These charges were
recorded in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses and
research, development and related expenses.  

NOTE 5. 
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information     

63  

Table of
Contents   

Supplemental
Balance Sheet Information (continued)   

*Includes
accumulated depreciation for capital leases of $40 million for 2008 and $42
million for 2007.  

Accounts payable
(included as a separate line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheet) includes
drafts payable on demand of $98 million and $44 million as of December 31,
2008, and 2007, respectively.  

64  

Table of
Contents   

NOTE
6.  Supplemental Stockholders  Equity and
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Information     

Common
stock ($.01 par value per share) of 3.0 billion shares is authorized, with
944,033,056 shares issued. Treasury stock is reported at cost, with 250,489,769
shares at December 31, 2008, 234,877,025 shares at December 31, 2007,
and 209,670,254 shares at December 31, 2006. Preferred stock, without par
value, of 10 million shares is authorized but unissued.  

The components of the
ending balances of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31
follow:  

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106 and 132(R).  This standard eliminated the requirement for a  minimum
pension liability adjustment  that was previously required under SFAS No. 87
and required employers to recognize the underfunded or overfunded status of a
defined benefit plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial
position. In 2006, as a result of the implementation of SFAS No. 158, the
Company recognized an after-tax decrease in accumulated other comprehensive
income of $1.187 billion and $513 million for the U.S. and International
pension benefit plans, respectively, and $218 million for the postretirement
benefit plans.  

Reclassification
adjustments are made to avoid double counting in comprehensive income items
that are also recorded as part of net income. In 2008, $79 million pre-tax ($52
million after-tax), were reclassified to earnings from accumulated other
comprehensive income to pension and postretirement expense in the income
statement. In 2007, $198 million pre-tax ($123 million after-tax) were
reclassified to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income to pension
and postretirement expense in the income statement. These pension and
postretirement expense amounts are shown in the table in Note 11 as
amortization of transition (asset) obligation, amortization of prior service
cost (benefit) and amortization of net actuarial (gain) loss. Cash flow hedging
instruments reclassifications are provided in Note 12. Reclassifications to
earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income for debt and equity
securities,   

65  

Table of
Contents   

which primarily
include marketable securities, totaled a loss of approximately $6 million
pre-tax ($4 million after tax) for 2008, as shown in the auction rate
securities table in Note 13. Other reclassification adjustments were not
material. Income taxes are not provided for foreign translation relating to
permanent investments in international subsidiaries, but tax effects within
cumulative translation does include impacts from items such as net investment
hedge transactions.  

NOTE
7.  Supplemental Cash Flow Information     

Individual
amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows exclude the impacts of
acquisitions, divestitures and exchange rate impacts, which are presented
separately.  Other   net  in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows within
operating activities in 2008, 2007 and 2006 includes changes in liabilities
related to 3M s restructuring actions (Note 4).  

Transactions
related to investing and financing activities with significant non-cash
components are as follows: In 2007, 3M purchased certain assets of Diamond
Productions, Inc. for approximately 150 thousand shares of 3M common
stock, which has a market value of approximately $13 million at the acquisition s
measurement date. Liabilities assumed from acquisitions are provided in the
tables in Note 2.  

66  

Table of
Contents   

NOTE
8.  Income Taxes     

Income
Before Income Taxes and Minority Interest   

Provision
for Income Taxes   

Components
of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities   

Reconciliation
of Effective Income Tax Rate   

The Company files income
tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various states and foreign
jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S.
federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities
for years before 2002. During 2008, the Company paid IRS assessments related to
tax and interest for the 2001 through 2004 tax years. The IRS s adjustments to
the Company s tax positions including   

67  

Table of Contents   

interest were fully
reserved. As a result of these additional tax payments, the Company s net
unrecognized tax benefits for tax and interest were reduced by $71 million
during 2008.  

In addition to the U.S.
federal examination, there is also limited audit activity in several U.S. state
and foreign jurisdictions. Currently, the Company expects the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits will change by an insignificant amount during the
next 12 months.  

The Company adopted the
provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,     on January 1, 2007. As a result of the
implementation of Interpretation 48, the Company recognized an immaterial
increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted
for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007, balance of retained earnings. A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits ( UTB ) is as follows:  

Federal, State and Foreign Tax   

The total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax
rate as of both December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 is $334
million. The ending net UTB results from adjusting the gross balance for items
such as Federal, State, and non-U.S. deferred items, interest and penalties,
and deductible taxes. The net UTB is included as components of Accrued Income
Taxes and Other Liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

The Company recognizes
interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax
expense. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company
recognized in the consolidated statement of income on a gross basis
approximately $8 million and $9 million in interest and penalties,
respectively. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, accrued
interest and penalties in the consolidated balance sheet on a gross basis were
$47 million and $69 million, respectively. Included in these interest and
penalty amounts are interest and penalties related to tax positions for which
the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty
about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax
accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the shorter
deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would
accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.  

In 2008 and 2007, the
Company completed the preparation and filing of its U.S. federal and state
income tax returns for 2007 and 2006, respectively, which did not result in any
material changes to the Company s financial position. In 2006, considering the
developments noted below and other factors, including the impact on open audit
years of the resolution of issues in various audits, reassessments resulted in
a reduction of the reserves in 2006 by $149 million, inclusive of the expected
amount of certain refund claims. In 2006, an audit of the Company s U.S. tax
returns for years through 2001 was completed. The Company and the Internal
Revenue Service reached a final settlement for these years, including an
agreement on the amount of a refund claim to be filed by the Company. The
Company also substantially resolved audits in certain European countries. In
addition, the Company completed the preparation and filing of its 2005 U.S.
federal income tax return and the corresponding 2005 state income tax returns.
The adjustments from amounts previously estimated in the U.S. federal and state
income tax returns (both positive and negative) included lower U.S. taxes on
dividends received from the Company s foreign subsidiaries. The Company also
made quarterly adjustments (both positive and negative) to its reserves for tax
contingencies.  

The Company made discretionary contributions to its
U.S. qualified pension plan of $200 million in 2008, $200 million in 2007, and
$200 million in 2006. The current
income tax provision includes a benefit for the pension contributions; the
deferred tax provision includes a cost for the related temporary difference.  

68  

Table of
Contents   

As a result of certain employment commitments and capital investments
made by 3M, income from manufacturing activities in certain countries is
subject to reduced tax rates or, in some cases, is exempt from tax for years
through 201  4. The income tax benefits attributable to the
tax status of these subsidiaries are estimated to be $44 million (6 cents per diluted share) in 2008, $47 million (6 cents per diluted
share) in 2007, and $20 million (3 cents per diluted share) in 2006.  

The Company has
not provided deferred taxes on unremitted earnings attributable to
international companies that have been considered to be reinvested
indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and were
approximately $5.9 billion as of December 31, 2008. Because of the
availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine
the income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not
indefinitely reinvested.  

NOTE 9.  Marketable Securities     

The Company invests in
asset-backed securities, agency securities, corporate medium-term note
securities and other securities. The following is a summary of amounts recorded
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for marketable securities (current and
non-current) at December 31, 2008.  

Classification of
marketable securities as current or non-current is dependent upon management s
intended holding period, the security s maturity date and liquidity
considerations based on market conditions. If management intends to hold the
securities for longer than one year as of the balance sheet date, they are
classified as non-current. At December 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses
totaled approximately $30 million (pre-tax), while gross unrealized gains were
not material. Gross unrealized losses related to auction rate securities
totaled $16 million, which are discussed further below, while other securities
have experienced unrealized losses of $14 million as credit spreads have
widened. Gross realized gains on sales or maturities of marketable securities
were $5 million in 2008, $7 million in 2007 and not material for 2006. Gross
realized losses on sales or maturities of marketable securities were not
material for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Cost of securities sold or reclassified use
the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Since these marketable securities are
classified as available-for-sale securities, changes in fair value will flow
through other comprehensive income, with amounts reclassified out of other
comprehensive income into earnings upon sale or  other-than-temporary 
impairment.  

3M has a diversified
marketable securities portfolio of $725 million as of December 31, 2008.
Within this portfolio, current and long-term asset-backed securities (estimated
fair value of $111 million) are primarily comprised of interests in automobile
loans and credit cards. At December 31, 2008, the asset-backed securities
credit ratings were AAA or A-1+, with the following exceptions: three
securities rated BBB with a fair market value of $5 million. 3M s   

69  

Table of Contents   

marketable securities
portfolio also includes auction rate securities (estimated fair value of $1
million) that represent interests in investment grade credit default swaps.
During the second half of 2007 and all four quarters in 2008, these auction
rate securities failed to auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders.
Liquidity for these auction-rate securities is typically provided by an auction
process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals,
usually every 7, 28, 35, or 90 days. The funds associated with failed auctions
will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs or a buyer is found
outside of the auction process. Based upon an analysis of  temporary  and  other-than-temporary 
impairment factors, auction rate securities with an original par value of
approximately $34 million were written-down to an estimated fair value of $16
million as of December 31, 2007 and subsequently written-down to an
estimated fair value of $1 million as of December 31, 2008. 3M recorded  other-than-temporary 
impairment charges that reduced pre-tax income by approximately $8 million in
2007 and approximately $9 million in 2008. There are $16 million (pre-tax) of
temporary impairments at December 31, 2008, which were recorded as
unrealized losses within other comprehensive income. As of December 31,
2008, these investments in auction rate securities have been in a loss position
for approximately 15 months. These auction rate securities are classified as
non-current marketable securities as of December 31, 2008 as indicated in
the preceding table. Refer to Note 13 for a table that reconciles the beginning
and ending balances of auction rate securities for 2008.  

3M reviews impairments
associated with the above in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
03-1 and FSP SFAS 115-1 and 124-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary-Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments,  as
well as EITF 99-20,  Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets,  and related
interpretations    to determine the classification
of the impairment as  temporary  or  other-than-temporary.  A temporary
impairment charge results in an unrealized loss being recorded in the other
comprehensive income component of stockholders  equity. Such an unrealized loss
does not reduce net income for the applicable accounting period because the
loss is not viewed as other-than-temporary. The Company believes that a portion
of the impairment of its auction rate securities investments is temporary and a
portion is other-than-temporary. The factors evaluated to differentiate between
temporary and other-than-temporary include the projected future cash flows,
credit ratings actions, and assessment of the credit quality of the underlying
collateral.  

The balance at December 31,
2008 for marketable securities and short-term investments by contractual
maturity are shown below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual
maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay
obligations without prepayment penalties.  

70  

Table of Contents   

NOTE
10.  Long-Term Debt and Short-Term
Borrowings     

Long-term debt and
short-term borrowings as of December 31 consisted of the following (with
interest rates as of December 31, 2008):  

Long-Term
Debt   

Short-Term
Borrowings and Current Portion of Long-Term Debt   

Weighted-Average
Effective Interest Rate*   

* Debt tables reflect the
effects of interest rate swaps at December 31; weighted-average effective
interest rate table reflects the combined effects of interest rate and currency
swaps at December 31.  

Maturities of long-term debt for the five years subsequent
to December 31, 2008 are as follows (in millions):  

T  he Company s $350 million of dealer
remarketable securities (classified as current portion of long-term debt) were
remarketed for one year in December 2008. Long-term debt payments due in
2009 include these $350 million of dealer remarketable securities and $62
million of floating rate notes. These securities are classified as current
portion of long-term debt as the result of put provisions associated with these
debt instruments. Long-term debt payments due  

71  

Table of Contents   

in 2010 and 2011 include
floating rate notes totaling $85 million and $100 million, respectively, as a
result of put provisions. Additionally, payments due in 2012 include the $224
million carrying amount of Convertible Notes, as a result of put provisions.  

The
ESOP debt is serviced by dividends on stock held by the ESOP and by Company
contributions. These contributions are not reported as interest expense, but
are reported as an employee benefit expense in the Consolidated Statement of
Income. Other borrowings includes debt held by 3M s international companies and
floating rate notes in the United States, with the long-term portion of this
debt primarily composed of U.S. dollar floating rate debt.  

The
Company has an AA credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard  
Poor s and an Aa1 credit rating, with a negative outlook, from Moody s
Investors Service. At December 31, 2008, certain debt agreements ($350
million of dealer remarketable securities and $44 million of ESOP debt)
had ratings triggers (BBB-/Baa3 or lower) that would require repayment of debt.
In addition, under the Company s $1.5-billion five-year credit facility agreement
that was effective April 30, 2007, 3M is required to maintain its EBITDA
to Interest Ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter at not less than 3.0 to
1. This is calculated (as defined in the agreement) as the ratio of
consolidated total EBITDA for the four consecutive quarters then ended to total
interest expense on all funded debt for the same period. At December 31,
2008, this ratio was approximately 30 to 1. At December 31, 2008,
available short-term committed lines of credit, including the preceding $1.5
billion five-year credit facility, totaled approximately $1.582 billion, of
which approximately $143 million was utilized in connection with normal
business activities. Debt covenants do not restrict the payment of dividends.  

The Company has a  well-known
seasoned issuer  shelf registration statement, effective February 24,
2006, which registers an indeterminate amount of debt or equity securities for
future sales. On June 15, 2007, the Company registered 150,718 shares of
the Company s common stock under this shelf on behalf of and for the sole
benefit of the selling stockholders in connection with the Company s
acquisition of assets of Diamond Productions, Inc.   The Company
intends to use the proceeds from its future securities sales off this shelf for
general corporate purposes.   In connection with this shelf registration, in June 2007 the
Company filed a prospectus relating to the offering of up to $3 billion of
medium-term notes. In December 2007, 3M issued a five-year, $500 million,
fixed rate note with a coupon rate of 4.65% under this medium-term notes
program. In August 2008, 3M issued a five-year, $850 million, fixed rate
note with a coupon rate of 4.375% under this medium-term notes program. In October 2008,
the Company issued a three-year $800 million, fixed rate note with a coupon
rate of 4.50% under this medium-term notes program, reducing remaining capacity
to $850 million as of December 31, 2008. The Company has the ability to
increase the amount of securities that are authorized to be issued under this
program.  

The Company also issued notes under an earlier
medium-term note program. In March 2007, the Company issued a 30-year,
$750 million, fixed rate note with a coupon rate of 5.70%. In November 2006,
3M issued a three-year, $400 million, fixed rate note. The Company entered into
an interest rate swap to convert this to a rate based on a floating LIBOR
index. In December 2004, 3M issued a 40-year, $62 million, floating rate
note, with the rate based on a floating LIBOR index. This $1.5 billion medium
term notes program was replaced by the $3 billion program established in June 2007.  

In July 2007, 3M
issued a seven year 5.0% fixed rate Eurobond for an amount of 750 million Euros
(book value of approximately $1.094 billion in U.S. Dollars at December 31,
2008). Upon debt issuance in July 2007, 3M completed a fixed-to-floating
interest rate swap on a notional amount of 400 million Euros as a fair value
hedge of a portion of the fixed interest rate Eurobond obligation. In December 2007,
3M reopened the existing seven year 5.0% fixed rate Eurobond for an additional
amount of 275 million Euros (book value of approximately $391 million in U.S.
Dollars at December 31, 2008). This security was issued at a premium and
was subsequently consolidated with the original security on January 15,
2008.  

3M
may redeem its 30-year zero-coupon senior notes (the  Convertible Notes ) at
any time in whole or in part at the accreted conversion price; however,
bondholders may convert upon notification of redemption each of the notes into
9.4602 shares of 3M common stock. Holders of the 30-year zero-coupon senior
notes have the option to require 3M to purchase their notes at accreted value
on November 21 in the years 2005, 2007, 2012, 2017, 2022 and 2027. In November 2005,
22,506 of the 639,000 in outstanding bonds were redeemed, resulting in a payout
from 3M of approximately $20 million. In November 2007, an additional
364,598 outstanding bonds were redeemed resulting in a payout from 3M of
approximately $322 million. These payouts reduced the Convertible Notes  face
value at maturity to $252 million, which equates to a book value of
approximately $224 million at December 31, 2008. As disclosed in a Form 8-K
in November 2005, 3M amended the terms of these securities to pay cash at
a rate of 2.40% per annum of the principal amount at maturity of the Company s
Convertible Notes, which equates to 2.75% per annum of the notes  accreted
value on November 21, 2005. The cash interest payments were made
semiannually in arrears on May 22, 2006, November 22, 2006, May 22,
2007 and November 22, 2007 to holders of record on the 15th calendar day   

72  

Table of
Contents   

preceding
each such interest payment date. Effective November 22, 2007, the
effective interest rate reverted back to the original yield of 0.50%.  

3M
originally sold $639 million in aggregate face amount of these  Convertible
Notes  on November 15, 2002, which are convertible into shares of 3M
common stock. The gross proceeds from the offering, to be used for general
corporate purposes, were $550 million ($540 million net of issuance costs).
Debt issuance costs were amortized on a straight-line basis over a three-year
period beginning in November 2002. On February 14, 2003, 3M
registered these Convertible Notes in a registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The terms of the Convertible Notes include
a yield to maturity of 0.50% and an initial conversion premium of 40 percent
over the $65.00 (split-adjusted) closing price of 3M common stock on November 14,
2002. If certain conditions for conversion (relating to the closing common
stock prices of 3M exceeding the conversion trigger price for specified
periods) are met, holders may convert each of the 30-year zero-coupon senior
notes into 9.4602 shares of 3M common stock in any calendar quarter commencing
after March 31, 2003. The conversion trigger price for the fourth quarter
of 2008 was $121.81 per share. If the conditions for conversion are met, and 3M
elects not to settle in cash, the 30-year zero-coupon senior notes will be
convertible in the aggregate into approximately 2.4 million shares of 3M common
stock. The conditions for conversion related to the Company s Convertible Notes
have never been met. If the conditions for conversion are met, 3M may choose to
pay in cash and/or common stock; however, if this occurs, the Company has the
intent and ability to settle this debt security in cash. Accordingly, there was
no impact on 3M s diluted earnings per share.  

In December 2008, the Company s $350 million of
dealer remarketable securities were remarketed for one year. They were reissued
with a fixed coupon rate of 7.14%. These securities, which are classified
as current portion of long-term debt, were issued in December 2000. The
remarketable securities can be remarketed annually, at the option of the
dealer, for a year each time, with a final maturity date of December 2010.  

NOTE 11.  Pension and
Postretirement Benefit Plans     

3M
has various company-sponsored retirement plans covering substantially all U.S.
employees and many employees outside the United States. Pension benefits
associated with these plans generally are based on each participant s years of
service, compensation, and age at retirement or termination. In addition to
providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain postretirement health
care and life insurance benefits for substantially all of its U.S. employees
who reach retirement age while employed by the Company. Most international
employees and retirees are covered by government health care programs. The cost
of company-provided postretirement health care plans for international
employees is not material and is combined with U.S. amounts.  

The
Company s pension funding policy is to deposit with independent trustees
amounts allowable by law. Trust funds and deposits with insurance companies are
maintained to provide pension benefits to plan participants and their
beneficiaries. There are no plan assets in the non-qualified plan due to its
nature. For its U.S. postretirement health care and life insurance benefit
plans, the Company has set aside amounts at least equal to annual benefit
payments with an independent trustee.  

In
August 2006, the Pension Protection Act (PPA) was signed into law in the
U.S. The PPA increased the funding target for defined benefit pension plans to
100 percent of the target liability. The PPA transition rules require a funding
liability target of 92 percent in 2008, reaching 100 percent by 2011. 3M s U.S.
qualified defined benefit plans are funded at the applicable transition funding
liability target for 2008.  

In accordance with SFAS No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R),  the
Company recognizes the underfunded or overfunded status of defined benefit
pension and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in its statement of
financial position, and recognizes changes in the funded status in the year in
which the changes occur through accumulated other comprehensive income, which
is a component of stockholders  equity.  

During the first quarter
of 2008, the Company made modifications to its U.S. postretirement benefits
plan. The changes are effective beginning January 1, 2009, and allow
current retired employees and employees who retire before January 1, 2013
the option to continue on the existing postretirement plans or elect the new
plans. Current employees who retire after December 31, 2012, will receive
a savings account benefits-based plan. As a result of the modification to the
U.S. postretirement benefits plan, the Company remeasured its U.S. plans  assets
and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) as of March 31,
2008. The impact of the plan modifications reduced the APBO by $148 million,
which was partially offset by asset values being $97 million lower than on December 31,
2007. Therefore, the accrued benefit cost liability recorded on the balance
sheet as of March 31, 2008, was reduced by $51 million. The remeasurement
reduced the 2008 expense by $15 million.  

73  

Table of Contents   

Following
is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the benefit
obligation and the fair value of plan assets as of December 31:  

74  

Table
of Contents   

The accumulated benefit
obligation of the U.S. pension plans was $9.844 billion and $9.643 billion at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation of the
international pension plans was $3.681 billion and $4.421 billion at December 2008
and 2007, respectively.  

The following amounts
relate to pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets as of December 31:  

75  

Table of Contents   

Components of net
periodic benefit cost and other supplemental information for the years ended December 31
follow:  

Components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts
recognized in other comprehensive income   

The estimated
amortization from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic
benefit cost in 2009 follows:  

Amounts
expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net
periodic benefit costs over next fiscal year   

Qualified and Non-qualified Pension Benefits   

Postretirement   

(Millions)   

United States   

International   

Benefits   

Amortization of
  transition (asset) obligation  

$  

$  

3  

$  

Amortization of
  prior service cost (benefit)  

16  

(5  

)  

(81  

)  

Amortization of
  net actuarial (gain) loss  

96  

42  

73  

$  

112  

$  

40  

$  

(8  

)  

Other supplemental
information for the years ended December 31 follows:  

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations   

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended   

3M s annual measurement
date for pension and postretirement assets and liabilities is December 31
each year, which is also the date used for the related annual measurement
assumptions. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the
associated liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The
Company sets its rate to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality,
fixed-income debt instruments that would produce cash flows sufficient in
timing  

76  

Table of Contents   

and amount to settle
projected future benefits. Using this methodology, the Company determined a
discount rate of 6.14% to be appropriate as of December 31, 2008, which is
an increase from the 6.00% rate used as of December 31, 2007.  

The Company reviews
external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine
the health care trend rates for the postretirement medical plans. The Company
separates the trend rates used for plan participants less than 65 years of age
and plan participants 65 years of age or older. The separation of the trend
rates reflects the higher costs associated with prescription drugs in the 65 or
older age group. The assumed health care trend rates as of December 31 are
as follows:  

Assumed health care trend rates   

The
assumed health care trend rates shown above reflect 3M s expected medical and
drug claims experience. The Company has developed certain long-term strategies
to help offset trend rates through care management, strategic sourcing
activities and plan design. A one percentage point change in assumed health
cost trend rates would have the following effects:  

Health Care Cost   

(Millions)   

One Percentage 
  Point Increase   

One Percentage 
  Point Decrease   

Effect on total
  of service and interest cost  

$  

21  

$  

(17  

)  

Effect on
  postretirement benefit obligation  

128  

(110  

)  

3M s
investment strategy for its pension and postretirement plans is to manage the
plans on a going-concern basis. The primary goal of the funds is to meet the
obligations as required. The secondary goal is to earn the highest rate of
return possible, without jeopardizing its primary goal, and without subjecting
the Company to an undue amount of contribution rate volatility. Fund returns
are used to help finance present and future obligations to the extent possible
within actuarially determined funding limits and tax-determined asset limits,
thus reducing the level of contributions 3M must make.  

3M
does not buy or sell any of its own stock as a direct investment for its
pension and other postretirement benefit funds. However, due to external
investment management of the funds, the plans may indirectly buy, sell or hold
3M stock. The aggregate amount of the shares would not be considered to be
material relative to the aggregate fund percentages.  

For the U.S. pension
plan, the Company s assumption for the expected return on plan assets was 8.50%
in 2008. Projected returns are based primarily on broad, publicly traded equity
and fixed-income indices and forward-looking estimates of active portfolio and
investment management. As of December 31, 2008, the Company s 2009
expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based on an asset
allocation assumption of 40 percent global equities, with an expected long-term
rate of return of 8.7%; 13 percent private equities with an expected long-term
rate of return of 10.7%; 26 percent fixed-income securities with an expected
long-term rate of return of 4.7%; 16 percent absolute return investments
independent of traditional performance benchmarks, with an expected long term
return of 7%; and 5 percent commodities with an expected long-term rate of
return of 6.8%. The Company expects additional positive return from active investment
management. These assumptions result in an 8.50% expected rate of return on an
annualized basis for 2009. The actual rate of return on U.S. plan assets in
2008 was a loss of 13.6%. In 2007 and 2006, these U.S. plan assets earned a
rate of return in excess of 14% and 12%, respectively. Since 2007, the
investment strategy has used long duration cash and derivative instruments to
achieve interest rate sensitivity that offsets approximately 50 percent of the
interest rate sensitivity of U.S. pension liabilities. The 2008 performance
benefited significantly from the long duration instruments. The average annual
actual return on the plan assets over the past 10 and 25 years has been 5.7%
and 10.9%, respectively.  

77  

Table of
Contents   

The
U.S. plan s asset allocation by asset category as of plan measurement dates
follows:  

While
the target asset allocations do not have a percentage allocated to cash, the
plans will always have some cash due to cash flows. The postretirement
allocation shown above represents a weighted-average allocation for U.S. plans.  

The
international plans  weighted-average asset allocation as of plan measurement
dates follows:  

The
preceding asset allocations for international plans represent the top six
countries by projected benefit obligation. These countries represent
approximately 90 percent of the total international plan assets. The other
countries  asset allocations would not have a significant impact on the
information presented.  

In
the third quarter of 2008, the Company made discretionary contributions
totaling $200 million to its U.S. qualified pension plan. In 2009, the Company
expects to contribute an amount in the range of $600 million to $850 million to
its U.S. and international pension plans. The Company does not have a required
minimum pension contribution obligation for its U.S. plans in 2009. Therefore,
the amount of the anticipated discretionary contribution could vary
significantly depending on the U.S. plans  funding status as of the 2009
measurement date and the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution.  

78  

Table of Contents   

The
following table provides the estimated pension and postretirement benefit
payments that are payable from the plans to participants, and also provides the
medicare subsidy receipts expected to be received.  

NOTE
12.  Derivatives     

The
Company uses interest rate swaps, currency swaps, commodity price swaps, and
forward and option contracts to manage risks generally associated with foreign
exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. The information
that follows explains the various types of derivatives and financial
instruments, and includes a table that recaps cash flow hedging amounts.  

Cash Flow
Hedging - Foreign Currency Forward and Option Contracts:    The Company enters into foreign exchange
forward contracts, options and swaps to hedge against the effect of exchange
rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and certain
intercompany financing transactions. These transactions are designated as cash
flow hedges. At December 31, 2008, the Company had various open foreign
exchange forward and option contracts, the majority of which had maturities of
one year or less. The settlement or extension of these derivatives will result
in reclassifications to earnings in the period during which the hedged
transactions affect earnings (from other comprehensive income). The maximum
length of time over which 3M is hedging its exposure to the variability in
future cash flows for a majority of the forecasted transactions is 12 months.
Hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

Cash Flow Hedging - Commodity Price Management:    The Company manages commodity price
risks through negotiated supply contracts, price protection agreements and
forward physical contracts. The Company uses commodity price swaps as cash flow
hedges of forecasted transactions to manage price volatility. The related
mark-to-market gain or loss on qualifying hedges is included in other
comprehensive income to the extent effective, and reclassified into cost of
sales in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. 3M
has hedged its exposure to the variability of future cash flows for certain
forecasted transactions through 2009. No significant commodity cash flow hedges
were discontinued and hedge ineffectiveness was not material during the years
2008, 2007 and 2006.  

Cash Flow Hedging - Forecasted
Debt Issuance:     In June 2007, the Company executed a
pre-issuance cash flow hedge by entering into a floating-to-fixed interest rate
swap on a notional amount of 350 million Euros related to the anticipated July 2007
Eurobond issuance of 750 million Euros. Upon debt issuance in July 2007,
3M terminated the floating-to-fixed swap. The termination of the swap resulted
in an immaterial gain, which is being amortized over the seven-year life of the
Eurobond.  

Amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related
to cash flow hedging instruments follow.  

Cash
Flow Hedging Instruments   

79  

Table of Contents   

At December 31,
2008, the Company expects to reclassify to earnings over the next 12 months a
majority of the cash flow hedging instruments after-tax gain of $44 million
(with the impact offset by cash flows from underlying hedged items).  

Fair
Value Hedging - Interest Rate Swaps:    The Company manages interest expense using a mix of
fixed and floating rate debt. To help manage borrowing costs, the Company may
enter into interest rate swaps. Under these arrangements, the Company agrees to
exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating
interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal
amount.  

At December 31,
2008, the Company had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of
underlying fixed rate obligations. In June 2006, the Company entered into
a $330 million fixed-to-floating interest rate swap to hedge the 30-year bond
due in 2028. The Company terminated the swap in March 2007 and the
resulting gain will be recognized over the remaining life of the underlying
debt. Accordingly, the termination of the swap did not have a material impact
on 3M s consolidated results of operations or financial condition. As indicated
in Note 10, in November 2006, the Company entered into a $400 million
fixed-to-floating interest rate swap concurrent with the issuance of the
three-year medium-term note due in 2009. Also as indicated in Note 10, in July 2007,
in connection with the issuance of a seven-year Eurobond for an amount of 750
million Euros, the Company completed a fixed-to-floating interest rate swap on
a notional amount of 400 million Euros as a fair value hedge of a portion of
the fixed interest rate Eurobond obligation. The mark-to-market of these fair
value hedges is recorded as gains or losses in interest expense and is offset
by the gain or loss on the underlying debt instrument, which also is recorded
in interest expense. The fair value of these outstanding interest rate swaps
were $53 million and $36 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008
and 2007. These fair value hedges are 100 percent effective and, thus, there is
no impact on earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness.  

Fair Value Hedging   Foreign
Currency:    In November 2008,
the Company entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to purchase
Japanese Yen, Pound Sterling, and Euros with a notional amount of $255 million
at the contract rates. These contracts were designated as fair value hedges of
a    U.S. dollar tax obligation.
These fair value hedges matured in early January 2009. The mark-to-market
of these fair value hedges is recorded as gains or losses in tax expense and is
offset by the gain or loss on the underlying tax obligation, which also is
recorded in tax expense. The fair value of these contracts as of December 31,
2008 was $25 million.  

Net Investment Hedging:    As circumstances warrant, the Company
uses cross currency swaps, forwards and foreign currency denominated debt to
hedge portions of the Company s net investments in foreign operations. For
hedges that meet the effectiveness requirements, the net gains or losses
attributable to changes in spot exchange rates are recorded in cumulative
translation within other comprehensive income. The remainder of the change in
value of such instruments is recorded in earnings.  

During late 2007 and early 2008, the Company entered
into foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of
$229 million that were designated as a partial hedge of the Company s net
investment in its Chinese subsidiaries. In September 2008, the Company
de-designated approximately $145 million of these hedges and entered into
offsetting non-hedge-designated forward contracts. Similar actions were taken
in early October 2008 relative to the remaining notional amount of these
net investment hedges. All of these forward contracts matured in December 2008.  

In July and December 2007,
as discussed in Note 10, the Company issued seven-year fixed rate Eurobond
securities for amounts of 750 million Euros and 275 million Euros,
respectively. 3M designated each of these Eurobond issuances as hedging
instruments of the Company s net investment in its European subsidiaries.  

In December 2006,
the Company entered into foreign currency forward contracts with a notional
amount of $556 million relative to the Company s net investment in its
European subsidiaries and with a notional amount of $209 million relative
to the Company s net investment in its Japanese subsidiaries. These forwards
matured in December 2007.  

In November 2006,
the Company entered into a three-year floating-to-floating cross currency swap
with a notional amount of $200 million. This transaction is a partial hedge of
the Company s net investment in its European subsidiaries. This swap converts
U.S. dollar-based variable interest payments to Euro-based variable interest
payments associated with the notional amount.  

In September 2006,
the Company entered into a three-year floating-to-floating cross currency swap
with a notional amount of $300 million. This transaction is a partial hedge of
the Company s net investment in its Japanese subsidiaries. This swap converts
U.S. dollar-based variable interest payments to yen-based variable interest
payments associated with the notional amount.  

80  

Table of Contents   

The unrealized gain
recorded in cumulative translation related to net investment hedging at December 31,
2008 was $44 million. The unrealized loss recorded in cumulative translation
related to net investment hedging at December 31, 2007 was $28 million.  

Currency
Effects:    3M
estimates that year-on-year currency effects, including hedging impacts,
increased net income by approximately $160 million in 2008, $150 million in
2007 and $20 million in 2006. This estimate includes the effect of translating
profits from local currencies into U.S. dollars; the impact of currency
fluctuations on the transfer of goods between 3M operations in the United
States and abroad; and transaction gains and losses, including derivative
instruments designed to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks other than
instruments hedging foreign currency risks on tax obligations. 3M estimates
that year-on-year derivative and other transaction gains and losses increased
net income by approximately $40 million in 2008, increased net income by
approximately $10 million in 2007 and had an immaterial impact on net income in
2006.  

Credit risk:    The Company is exposed to credit loss in
the event of nonperformance by counterparties in interest rate swaps, currency
swaps, commodity price swaps, and forward and option contracts. However, the
Company s risk is limited to the fair value of the instruments. The Company
actively monitors its exposure to credit risk through the use of credit
approvals and credit limits, and by selecting major international banks and
financial institutions as counterparties. The Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by any of these counterparties. During the second quarter of
2006, the Company entered into a credit support agreement with one of its
primary derivatives counterparties. Under this agreement either party is
required to post eligible collateral when the market value of transactions
covered by the agreement exceeds specified thresholds, thus limiting credit
exposure for both parties.  

NOTE
13.  Fair Value Measurements     

As discussed in Note 1,
3M adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  (as impacted by FSP
Nos. 157-1 and 157-2) effective January 1, 2008, with respect to fair
value measurements of (a) nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are
recognized or disclosed at fair value in the Company s financial statements on
a recurring basis (at least annually) and (b) all financial assets and
liabilities.  

Under SFAS No. 157,
fair value is defined as the exit price, or the amount that would be received
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants as of the measurement date. SFAS No. 157 also
establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes
the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by
requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. Observable
inputs are inputs market participants would use in valuing the asset or
liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of
the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s
assumptions about the factors market participants would use in valuing the
asset or liability developed based upon the best information available in the
circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels. Level 1 inputs
are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or
liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or
liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs (other than quoted
prices) that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of
input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  

Assets and Liabilities that are
Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis:   

At 3M, effective January 1,
2008, fair value under SFAS No. 157 (as impacted by FSP Nos. 157-1 and
157-2) principally applied to financial asset and liabilities such as
available-for-sale marketable securities, available-for-sale investments
(included as part of investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet) and certain
derivative instruments. Derivatives include cash flow hedges, interest rate
swaps and most net investment hedges. These items were previously and will
continue to be marked-to-market at each reporting period; however, the
definition of fair value used for these mark-to-markets is now applied using
SFAS No. 157. The information in the following paragraphs and tables
primarily addresses matters relative to these financial assets and liabilities.
The information incorporates guidance of FSP No. 157-3,  Determining the
Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active, 
which was effective for 3M beginning with the quarter ended September 30,
2008. Separately, there were no material fair value measurements with respect
to nonfinancial assets or liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair
value in the Company s financial statements on a recurring basis subsequent to
the effective date of SFAS No. 157 (as impacted by FSP Nos. 157-1 and 157-2).  

3M uses various valuation
techniques, which are primarily based upon the market and income approaches,
with respect to financial assets and liabilities. Following is a description of
the valuation methodologies used for the respective financial assets and
liabilities measured at fair value.  

81  

Table of Contents   

Available-for-sale
marketable securities   except auction rate securities:  

Marketable securities,
except auction rate securities, are valued utilizing multiple sources. A
weighted average price is used for these securities. Market prices are obtained
for these securities from a variety of industry standard data providers,
security master files from large financial institutions, and other third-party
sources. These multiple prices are used as inputs into a
distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily fair value to be
used. 3M classifies treasury securities as level 1, while all other marketable
securities (excluding auction rate securities) are classified as level 2.
Marketable securities are discussed further in Note 9.  

Available-for-sale
marketable securities   auction rate securities only:  

As discussed in Note 9,
auction rate securities held by 3M failed to auction during the second half of
2007 and all four quarters in 2008. As a result, investments in auction rate
securities are valued utilizing broker-dealer valuation models and third-party
indicative bid levels in markets that are not active. 3M classifies these
securities as level 3.  

Available-for-sale
investments:  

Investments include
equity securities that are traded in an active market. Closing stock prices are
readily available from active markets and are used as being representative of
fair value. 3M classifies these securities as level 1.  

Certain derivative
instruments:  

Derivative assets and
liabilities within the scope of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities , are required to be recorded at fair value.
The Company s derivatives that are impacted by SFAS No. 157 include
foreign currency forward and option contracts, commodity price swaps, interest
rate swaps, and net investment hedges where the hedging instrument is recorded
at fair value. Net investment hedges that use foreign currency denominated debt
to hedge 3M s net investment are not impacted by SFAS No. 157 as the debt
used as the hedging instrument is marked to a value with respect to changes in
spot foreign currency exchange rates and not with respect to other factors that
may impact fair value.  

3M has determined that
foreign currency forwards and commodity hedges will be considered level 1
measurements as these are traded in active markets which have identical asset
or liabilities, while currency swaps, foreign exchange options, interest rate
swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps will be considered level 2. For
level 2 derivatives, 3M uses inputs other than quoted prices that are
observable for the asset. These inputs include foreign currency exchange rates,
volatilities, and interest rates. The level 2 derivative positions are
primarily valued using standard calculations/models that use as their basis
readily observable market parameters. Industry standard data providers are 3M s
primary source for forward and spot rate information for both interest rates
and currency rates, with resulting valuations periodically validated through
third-party or counterparty quotes and a net present value stream of cash flows
model.  

The following table
provides information by level for assets and liabilities that are measured at
fair value, as defined by SFAS No. 157, on a recurring basis.  

82  

Table of Contents   

The following table
provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of items
measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the table above that used
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).  

(Millions) 
  Marketable securities   auction rate 
  securities only   

Twelve months 
  ended 
  Dec. 31, 2008   

Beginning
  balance  

$  

16  

Total gains or
  losses:  

Included in
  earnings  

(3  

)  

Included in
  other comprehensive income  

(12  

)  

Purchases,
  issuances, and settlements  

Transfers in
  and/or out of Level 3  

Ending balance
  (December 31, 2008)  

$  

1  

Additional
  losses included in earnings due to reclassifications from other comprehensive
  income for securities still held at December 31, 2008  

$  

(6  

)  

In addition, the plan
assets of 3M s pension and postretirement benefit plans are measured at fair
value on a recurring basis (at least annually). During the quarter ended March 31,
2008, the Company remeasured the plan assets of its U.S. postretirement
benefits plan in connection with a change in the benefits provided by this
plan. As required by FAS 158, 3M s defined benefit pension and postretirement
plans  assets were also measured at fair value as of December 31, 2008.
Refer to Note 11 for additional discussion concerning pension and
postretirement benefit plans.  

Fair
value of financial instruments:    At December 31, 2008
and 2007, the Company s financial instruments included cash and cash
equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, investments, accounts
payable, borrowings, and derivative contracts. The fair values of cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and short-term borrowings
and current portion of long-term debt (except the $350 million dealer
remarketable security) approximated carrying values because of the short-term
nature of these instruments. Available-for-sale marketable securities and
investments, in addition to certain derivative instruments, are recorded at
fair values as indicated in the preceding disclosures. Fair values for
investments held at cost are not readily available, but are estimated to
approximate fair value. The Company utilized third-party quotes to estimate
fair values for its dealer remarketable securities and long-term debt. The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of these financial instruments as of
December 31 follow:  

Financial
Instruments  Carrying Amounts and Estimated Fair Values   

3M s
fixed-rate bonds are trading at a premium at December 31, 2008 due to the
low interest rates at year-end. The convertible debt (included in long-term
debt) has a fair value which is below the carrying amount due to the low yield
on the bond, combined with the 3M stock price trading below the conversion
trigger price.  

Assets and Liabilities that are
Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis:   

During 2008, the Company
had no significant measurements of assets or liabilities at fair value (as
defined in SFAS No. 157) on a nonrecurring basis subsequent to their
initial recognition. As indicated in Note 1, the aspects of SFAS No. 157
for which the effective date for 3M was deferred under FSP No. 157-2 until
January 1, 2009 relate to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value, but are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis. This deferral applies to such items as nonfinancial assets
and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination (but
not measured at fair value in subsequent periods) or nonfinancial long-lived
asset groups measured at fair value for an impairment assessment. During 2008,
such measurements of fair value impacted by the deferral under FSP No. 157-2
related primarily to the nonfinancial assets and liabilities with respect to
the business combinations in 2008 as discussed in Note 2 and the portion of
2008 restructuring actions and exit activities related to fixed asset impairments
as discussed in Note 4.  

83  

Table of Contents   

NOTE
14.  Commitments and Contingencies     

Capital
and Operating Leases:   

Rental expense under
operating leases was $247 million in 2008, $226 million in 2007, and $211
million in 2006. It is 3M s practice to secure renewal rights for leases,
thereby giving 3M the right, but not the obligation, to maintain a presence in
a leased facility. 3M s primary capital lease, which became effective in April 2003,
involves a building in the United Kingdom (with a lease term of 22 years).
During the second quarter of 2003, 3M recorded a capital lease asset and
obligation of approximately 33.5 million United Kingdom pounds (approximately
$47 million at December 31, 2008 exchange rates). Minimum lease payments
under capital and operating leases with non-cancelable terms in excess of one
year as of December 31, 2008, were as follows:  

Warranties/Guarantees:   

3M s accrued product warranty liabilities, recorded on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as part of current and long-term liabilities,
are estimated at approximately $25 million and $21 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007. 3M does not consider this amount to be
material. The fair value of 3M guarantees of loans with third parties and other
guarantee arrangements, except for the guarantee discussed below, are not
material.  

3M Security Printing and
Systems Limited, a subsidiary of 3M, has provided a guarantee through 3M United
Kingdom Holdings PLC (another subsidiary of 3M) to The Identity and Passport
Service (IPS). 3M has guaranteed default on performance and payment of
liabilities under a contract with IPS. The amount guaranteed is 45 million
Great British Pounds (approximately $65 million U.S. dollars at December 31,
2008). The contract expires on October 4, 2010. 3M does not expect to pay
out any funds under this guarantee.  

Related Party Activity:   

3M does not have any
related party activity that is not in the ordinary course of business.  

Legal Proceedings:   

The Company and
some of its subsidiaries are involved in numerous claims and lawsuits,
principally in the United States, and regulatory proceedings worldwide. These
include various products liability (involving products that the Company now or
formerly manufactured and sold), intellectual property, and commercial claims
and lawsuits, including those brought under the antitrust laws, and
environmental proceedings. The following sections first describe the
significant legal proceedings in which the Company is involved, and then
describe the liabilities and associated insurance receivables the Company has
accrued relating to its significant legal proceedings. Unless otherwise stated,
the Company is vigorously defending all such litigation.  

Shareholder
Derivative Litigation   

As previously
reported, in July 2007, a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against the Company as nominal
defendant and against each then current member of the Board of Directors and
the officers named in the Summary Compensation Table of the 2007 Proxy
Statement. The suit alleges that the Company s 2007 Proxy Statement contained
false and misleading statements concerning the tax deductibility of
compensation payable under the Executive Annual Incentive Plan ( Plan ) and the
standards for determining the amounts payable under the Plan. The lawsuit seeks
a declaration voiding shareholder approval of the Plan, termination of the
Plan, voiding the elections of directors, equitable accounting, and awarding
costs, including attorneys  fees.  

In May 2008,
the Company and the individual defendants agreed to settle the litigation
without admitting any liability or wrongdoing of any kind. The settlement
agreement, which is subject to court approval, calls for the Compensation   

84  

Table of Contents   

Committee of the
Company s Board of Directors to adopt a resolution formally stating its
interpretation of certain aspects of the Plan, and the Company to issue a press
release to the same effect, and to pay up to $600,000 in attorney s fees to the
plaintiff s counsel. On December 30, 2008, the Court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement
agreement. As a result, the Company will notify all stockholders of the
proposed settlement and its terms and their right to object to the terms of the
settlement. The Court also scheduled a final hearing for May 21, 2009 for
the purpose of finally determining whether the proposed settlement agreement is
fair, reasonable and adequate. The settlement will be consummated after a final
order approving the settlement.  

French
Competition Council Investigation    

On December 4, 2008, the Company s subsidiary in France received a
Statement of Objections from the French Competition Council alleging an abuse
of a dominant position regarding the supply of retro-reflective films for
vertical signing applications in France and of participation in a concerted
practice with the major French manufacturers of vertical signs. The Statement
of Objections is an intermediate stage in the proceedings and no final
determination regarding an infringement of French competition rules has
been made. 3M will file a response in due course denying that the Statement of
Objections states any valid claim against 3M. It is difficult to predict the
final outcome of the investigation at this time.   

Breast Implant
Litigation    

The Company and
certain other companies were named as defendants in past years in numerous
claims and lawsuits alleging damages for personal injuries of various types
resulting from breast implants formerly manufactured by the Company or a
related company. The vast majority of claims against the Company have been
resolved. The Company does not consider its remaining probable liability to be
material. Information concerning the associated insurance receivable and legal
proceedings related to it follows in the paragraph entitled  Breast Implant Liabilities and Insurance Receivables .  

Respirator
Mask/Asbestos Litigation    

For more than 25
years the Company has defended and resolved the claims of hundreds of thousands
of individual claimants alleging injuries from occupational dust exposures. As
of December 31, 2008, the Company is a named defendant, with multiple
co-defendants, in numerous lawsuits in various courts that purport to represent
approximately 2,700 individual claimants, a decrease from the approximately
8,750 individual claimants with actions pending at December 31, 2007.  

The vast majority
of the lawsuits and claims resolved by and currently pending against the
Company allege use of some of the Company s mask and respirator products and
seek damages from the Company and other defendants for alleged personal injury
from workplace exposures to asbestos, silica, coal or other occupational dusts
found in products manufactured by other defendants or generally in the
workplace. A minority of claimants generally allege personal injury from
occupational exposure to asbestos from products previously manufactured by the
Company, which are often unspecified, as well as products manufactured by other
defendants, or occasionally at Company premises.  

In many of these
lawsuits and claims, the Company is named as a defendant with multiple
co-defendants where no product the Company manufactured is identified or where
the Company is ultimately determined not to have manufactured the products
identified by the plaintiffs. The Company s vigorous defense of this litigation
has resulted in dismissals of many claims without any payment by the Company,
and jury verdicts for the Company in seven of the eight cases tried to verdict
(such trials occurred in 1999, 2000, 2003, 2004 and 2007), and an appellate
reversal in 2005 of the one jury verdict adverse to the Company.  

Since approximately
2006, the Company has experienced a significant decline in the number of new
claims filed annually by apparently unimpaired claimants. The Company
attributes this decline to several factors, including certain changes enacted
in several states in recent years of the law governing asbestos-related claims,
and the highly-publicized decision in mid-2005 of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Texas that identified and criticized abuses
by certain attorneys, doctors and x-ray screening companies on behalf of
primarily unimpaired claimants, many of whom were recruited by plaintiffs 
lawyers through mass chest x-ray screenings. The Company expects the filing of
claims by unimpaired claimants in the future to continue at much lower levels
than in the past. The Company believes that due to this change in the type and
volume of incoming claims, it is likely that the number of claims alleging more
serious injuries, including mesothelioma and other malignancies, while
remaining relatively constant, will represent a greater percentage of total
claims than in the past. The Company has demonstrated in past trial proceedings
that its respiratory protection products are effective as claimed when used in
the intended manner and in the intended circumstances. Consequently the Company
believes that claimants are unable to establish that their medical conditions,
even if significant, are attributable to the Company s respiratory protection
products. Nonetheless the Company s litigation experience indicates that claims
of persons with malignant conditions are costlier to resolve than the claims of
unimpaired persons, and it therefore anticipates an increase in the average
cost of resolving pending and future claims on a per-claim basis than it experienced
in prior periods when the vast majority of claims were asserted by the
unimpaired.  

Plaintiffs have
asserted specific dollar claims for damages in approximately 37 percent of the
1,013 lawsuits that were pending against the Company at the end of 2008 in all
jurisdictions. A majority of states restrict or prohibit specifying   

85  

Table of Contents   

damages in tort
cases such as these, and most of the remaining jurisdictions do not require
such specification. In those cases in which plaintiffs choose to assert
specific dollar amounts in their complaints, brought in states that permit such
pleading, the amounts claimed are typically not meaningful as an indicator of
the Company s potential liability. This is because (a) the amounts claimed
typically bear no relation to the extent of the plaintiff s injury, if any; (b) the
complaints nearly always assert claims against multiple defendants with the
typical complaint asserting claims against as few as a dozen different
defendants to upwards of 275 different defendants, the damages alleged are not
attributed to individual defendants, and a defendant s share of liability may
turn on the law of joint and several liability, which can vary by state, and by
the amount of fault a jury allocates to each defendant if a case is ultimately
tried before a jury; (c) many cases are filed against the Company even
though the plaintiffs did not use any of the Company s products and,
ultimately, are withdrawn or dismissed without any payment; and (d) many
cases are brought on behalf of plaintiffs who have not suffered any medical
injury, and, ultimately, are resolved without any payment or a payment that is
a small fraction of the damages initially claimed. Of the 375 pending cases in
which purported damage amounts are specified in the complaints, 230 cases
involve claims of $100,000 or less, (thirteen (13) of which also alleges
punitive damages of $7,000, three (3) of which also allege punitive
damages of $1 million, and six (6) of which also allege punitive damages
of $20 million); 102 cases involve claims between $100,000 and $3 million
(forty-seven (47) of which also allege punitive damages of $250,000, one (1) of
which also alleges punitive damages of $1 million, thirty-six (36) of which
also allege punitive damages of $1.5 million, and one (1) of which also
alleges punitive damages of $2 million); five (5) cases involve claims of
$3 million to $7.5 million (one (1) of which also alleges punitive damages
of $350,000, one (1) of which also alleges punitive damages of $5 million,
and one (1) of which also alleges punitive damages of $25 million);      seven (7) cases
involve claims of $7.5 million to $10 million (three (3) of which also
allege punitive damages of $5 million and four (4) of which also allege
punitive damages of $21 million); thirteen (13) cases involve claims of $10
million (one (1) of which also alleges punitive damages of $5 million, six
(6) of which also allege punitive damages of $10 million, and one (1) of
which also alleges punitive damages of $15 million); fourteen (14) cases
involve claims of $10 million to $50 million (one (1) of which also
alleges punitive damages of $5 million, three (3) of which also allege
punitive damages of $15 million, five (5) of which also allege punitive
damages of $15.5 million, and two (2) of which also allege punitive
damages of $20 million); and four (4) cases involve claims of $50 million
(two (2) of which also allege punitive damages of $50 million). Some
complaints allege that the compensatory and punitive damages are at least the
amounts specified. As previously stated, the Company s experience and the other
reasons cited indicate that the damage amounts specified in complaints are not
a meaningful factor in any assessment of the Company s potential liability.  

As previously
reported, the State of West Virginia, through its Attorney General, filed a
complaint in 2003 against the Company and two other manufacturers of
respiratory protection products in the Circuit Court of Lincoln County, West
Virginia and amended it in 2005. The amended complaint seeks substantial, but
unspecified, compensatory damages primarily for reimbursement of the costs
allegedly incurred by the State for worker s compensation and healthcare
benefits provided to all workers with occupational pneumoconiosis and
unspecified punitive damages.  

Respirator
Mask/Asbestos Litigation   Aearo Technologies   

On April 1,
2008, a subsidiary of the Company purchased the stock of Aearo Holding Corp.,
the parent of Aearo Technologies ( Aearo ). Aearo manufactures and sells
various products, including personal protection equipment, such as eye, ear,
head, face, fall and respiratory protection products.  

As of December 31,
2008, Aearo and/or other companies that previously owned and operated Aearo s
respirator business (American Optical Corporation, Warner-Lambert LLC, AO Corp.
and Cabot Corporation ( Cabot )) are named defendants, with multiple co-defendants,
including the Company, in numerous lawsuits in various courts in which
plaintiffs allege use of mask and respirator products and seek damages from
Aearo and other defendants for alleged personal injury from workplace exposures
to asbestos, silica-related, or other occupational dusts found in products
manufactured by other defendants or generally in the workplace.  

As of December 31,
2008, the Company, through its Aearo subsidiary, has recorded $35 million as an
estimate of the probable liabilities for product liabilities and defense costs
related to current and future Aearo-related asbestos and silica-related claims.
Responsibility for legal costs, as well as for settlements and judgments, is
currently shared in an informal arrangement among Aearo, Cabot, American
Optical Corporation and a subsidiary of Warner Lambert and their insurers (the  Payor
Group ). Liability is allocated among the parties based on the number of years
each company sold respiratory products under the  AO Safety  brand and/or owned
the AO Safety Division of American Optical Corporation and the alleged years of
exposure of the individual plaintiff. Aearo s share of the contingent liability
is further limited by an agreement entered into between Aearo and Cabot on July 11,
1995. This agreement provides that, so long as Aearo pays to Cabot an annual
fee of $400,000, Cabot will retain responsibility and liability for, and
indemnify Aearo against, asbestos and silica-related product liability claims
for respirators manufactured prior to July 11, 1995. Because the date of
manufacture for a particular respirator allegedly used in the past is often
difficult to determine, Aearo and Cabot have applied the agreement to claims
arising out of the use of respirators while exposed to asbestos or silica or
products containing asbestos or silica prior to January 1, 1997. With
these arrangements in place, Aearo s potential liability is limited to
exposures alleged to have arisen from the use of respirators while exposed to
asbestos, silica or other occupational dusts on or after January 1, 1997.  

86  

Table of Contents   

To date, Aearo has
elected to pay the annual fee. Aearo could potentially be exposed to additional
claims for some part of the pre-July 11, 1995 period covered by its
agreement with Cabot if Aearo elects to discontinue its participation in this
arrangement, or if Cabot is no longer able to meet its obligations in these
matters.  

Developments may
occur that could affect the estimate of Aearo s liabilities. These developments
include, but are not limited to: (i) significant changes in the number of
future claims, (ii) significant changes in the average cost of resolving claims,
(iii) significant changes in the legal costs of defending these claims, (iv) significant
changes in the mix and nature of claims received, (v) trial and appellate
outcomes, (vi) significant changes in the law and procedure applicable to
these claims, (vii) significant changes in the liability allocation among
the co-defendants, (viii) the financial viability of members of the Payor
Group including exhaustion of available coverage limits, (ix) the outcome
of pending insurance coverage litigation among certain other members of the
Payor Group and their respective insurers, and/or (x) a determination that
the interpretation of the contractual obligations on which Aearo has estimated
its share of liability is inaccurate. The Company cannot determine the impact
of these potential developments on its current estimate of Aearo s share of
liability for these existing and future claims. If any of the developments
described above were to occur, the actual amount of these liabilities for
existing and future claims could be significantly larger than the reserved
amount.  

Employment
Litigation   

As previously
reported, one current and one former employee of the Company filed a purported
class action in the District Court of Ramsey County, Minnesota, in December 2004,
seeking to represent a class of all current and certain former salaried
employees employed by the Company in Minnesota below a certain salary grade who
were age 46 or older at any time during the applicable period to be determined
by the Court (the  Whitaker  lawsuit). The complaint alleges the plaintiffs
suffered various forms of employment discrimination on the basis of age in
violation of the Minnesota Human Rights Act and seeks injunctive relief,
unspecified compensatory damages (which they seek to treble under the statute),
including back and front pay, punitive damages (limited by statute to $8,500
per claimant) and attorneys  fees. In January 2006, the plaintiffs filed a
motion to join four additional named plaintiffs. This motion was unopposed by
the Company and the four plaintiffs were joined in the case, although one claim
has been dismissed following an individual settlement. The class certification
hearing was held in December 2007. On April 11, 2008, the Court
granted the plaintiffs  motion to certify the case as a class action and
defined the class as all persons who were 46 or older when employed by 3M in
Minnesota in a salaried exempt position below a certain salary grade at any
time on or after May 10, 2003, and who did not sign a document on their
last day of employment purporting to release claims arising out of their
employment with 3M. On June 25, 2008, the Minnesota Court of Appeals
granted the Company s petition for interlocutory review of the District Court s
decision granting class certification in the case. The Court of Appeals heard
argument in the case on February 4, 2009. Under Minnesota rules, the Court
has 90 days to issue a ruling. While the appeal is pending, all other activity
on the case is stayed. No trial date or calendar of pretrial proceedings has
been set at this time.  

A similar age
discrimination lawsuit by a single former employee was filed in the District
Court of Ramsey County, Minnesota. As in the Whitaker lawsuit, the plaintiff
claims he was subject to age discrimination in violation of the Minnesota Human
Rights Act ( MHRA ). He is also claiming he experienced gender discrimination
in violation of the MHRA. The plaintiff seeks unspecified monetary damages,
including an award equal to three times his lost salary and benefits, damages
for emotional and mental distress, punitive damages (limited by statute to
$8,500) and attorneys  fees. He also seeks injunctive relief. The case is
assigned for trial before the district court judge who certified the class in
the Whitaker lawsuit and is set for trial in late March or early April 2009.  

In addition, three
former employees filed age discrimination charges against the Company with the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the pertinent state agencies
in Minnesota, Texas and California during 2005. Such filings include
allegations that the release of claims signed by certain former employees in
the purported class defined in the charges is invalid for various reasons and
assert age discrimination claims on behalf of certain current and former
salaried employees in states other than Minnesota and New Jersey. In 2006, one
current employee filed an age discrimination charge against the Company with
the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the pertinent state agency
in Missouri, asserting claims on behalf of a class of all current and certain
former salaried employees who worked in Missouri and other states other than
Minnesota and New Jersey. In 2007, a former employee filed an age
discrimination charge against the Company with the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission and the pertinent state agency in California, asserting
claims on behalf of a class of all current and certain former salaried
employees who worked in California. Although the claim was filed in 2007, it
was not served on the Company until October 2008, which was the Company s
first notice of the charge. The same law firm represents the plaintiffs in the
Whitaker lawsuit as well as the claimants in each of these EEOC proceedings.  

Environmental
Matters and Litigation    

The Company s
operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations including those
pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, toxic substances, and the
handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes enforceable by national,
state, and local authorities around the world, and private parties in the
United States and abroad. These laws and regulations provide, under certain
circumstances, a basis for the remediation of contamination and for personal
injury and property damage claims. The Company has incurred, and will continue
to incur, costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and
regulations, defending personal injury and property damage claims, and
modifying its   

87  

Table of Contents   

business
operations in light of its environmental responsibilities. In its effort to
satisfy its environmental responsibilities and comply with environmental laws
and regulations, the Company has established, and periodically updates,
policies relating to environmental standards of performance for its operations
worldwide.  

Remediation   : Under certain environmental laws,
including the United States Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act of 1980 and similar state laws, the Company may be jointly
and severally liable, typically with other companies, for the costs of
environmental contamination at current or former facilities and at off-site
locations. The Company has identified numerous locations, most of which are in
the United States, at which it may have some liability. Please refer to the  Environmental
remediation liabilities  in the table in the following section,   Accrued Liabilities and Insurance Receivables Related to Legal
Proceedings,   for information on the amount of the reserve.  

Regulatory
Activities   : As
previously reported, the Company has been voluntarily cooperating with ongoing
reviews by local, state, national (primarily the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA)), and international agencies of possible environmental and health
effects of perfluorooctanyl compounds ( PFCs ) (perflurooctanoic acid or  PFOA 
and perfluorooctane sulfonate or  PFOS ) and related compounds. As a result of
its phase-out decision in May 2000, the Company no longer manufactures
perfluorooctanyl compounds, except that a subsidiary recovers and recycles PFOA
in Gendorf, Germany, for internal use in production processes and has agreed to
a product stewardship initiative with the EPA to end its use of PFOA by 2015.  

Regulatory activities
concerning PFOA and/or PFOS continue in Europe and elsewhere, and before
certain international bodies. These activities include gathering of exposure
and use information, risk assessment, and consideration of regulatory
approaches. In December 2006, the European Union adopted an amendment to
the Marketing and Use Directive to limit use of PFOS. Member States were required to enact the Directive into national law by December 27,
2007 with an effective date of June 27, 2008.  

As previously
reported, the Minnesota Department of Health ( MDH ) detected low levels of
another perfluoronated compound called perfluorobutanoic acid (PFBA) in
municipal wells (and in private wells as announced by the MDH in June 2007)
in six nearby communities (Woodbury, Cottage Grove, Newport, St. Paul Park,
South St. Paul, and Hastings, all communities located southeast of St. Paul),
some of which slightly exceeded the MDH s interim advisory level for PFBA of 1
part per billion (ppb). In February 2008, the MDH established a
health-based value (HBV) for PFBA of 7 ppb based on a clearer understanding of
PFBA through the results of three major studies and sampling more than 1,000
private wells. An HBV is the amount of a chemical in drinking water considered
by the MDH staff to be safe for people to drink for a lifetime. As a result of
this new HBV for PFBA, well advisories will no longer be required for certain
wells in the Minnesota communities of Lake Elmo, Oakdale and Cottage Grove.
Residents in the affected communities where the levels of PFBA in private wells
exceed the HBV either have been provided water treatment systems or connected
to a city water system. As part of legislation passed during the 2007 Minnesota
legislative session directing the MDH to develop and implement a statewide
Environmental Health Tracking and Biomonitoring program, the MDH announced in July 2008
that it will measure the amount of PFCs in the blood of 200 adults who live in
the Minnesota communities of Oakdale, Lake Elmo and Cottage Grove.  

The Company
continues to work with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) pursuant
to the terms of the previously disclosed May 2007 Settlement Agreement and
Consent Order to address the presence of perfluoronated compounds in the soil
and groundwater at former disposal sites in Washington County Minnesota and at
the Company s manufacturing facility at Cottage Grove Minnesota. Under this
agreement, the Company s principal obligations include (i) evaluation of
releases of perfluoronated compounds from these sites and propose response
actions; (ii) providing alternative drinking water if and when an HBV or
Health Risk Limit ( HRL ) (i.e., the amount of a chemical in drinking water
determined by the MDH to be safe for people to drink for a lifetime) is
exceeded for any perfluoronated compounds as a result of contamination from
these sites; (iii) remediation of any source of PFBA and provide
alternative drinking water if and when levels are found above an HBV or HRL;
and (iv) sharing information with the MPCA about perfluoronated compounds.
During 2008, the MPCA issued formal decisions adopting remedial options for the
former disposal sites in Washington County Minnesota (Oakdale and Woodbury).
Those options were among the options recommended by the Company. The MPCA is in
the process of selecting a remedy for the Company s manufacturing facility at
Cottage Grove.  

As previously
reported, the Company entered into a voluntary remedial action agreement with
the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) to address the
presence of PFCs in the soil on the Company s manufacturing facility in
Decatur, Alabama. For approximately twenty years, the Company incorporated
wastewater treatment plant sludge containing PFCs in fields surrounding its
Decatur facility pursuant to a permit issued by ADEM. After a review of the
available options to address the presence of PFCs in the soil, ADEM agreed that
the preferred remediation option is to use a multilayer cap over the former
sludge incorporation areas on the manufacturing site with groundwater migration
controls and treatment.  

Please refer to
the  Other environmental liabilities  in the table in the following section,   Accrued Liabilities and Insurance Receivables Related to Legal
Proceedings   for information on the balance of the reserve
established to implement the Settlement Agreement and Consent Order with the
MPCA, the remedial action agreement with ADEM,  

88  

Table of Contents   

and to address
trace amounts of perfluorinated compounds in drinking water sources in the City
of Oakdale and Lake Elmo, Minnesota, as well as presence in the soil and
groundwater at the Company s manufacturing facilities in Decatur, Alabama, and
Cottage Grove, Minnesota, and at two former disposal sites in Minnesota.  

The Company cannot
predict what regulatory actions arising from the foregoing proceedings and activities,
if any, may be taken regarding such compounds or the consequences of any such
actions.  

Litigation   : As previously reported, a former
employee filed a purported class action lawsuit in 2002 in the Circuit Court of
Morgan County, Alabama, involving perfluorooctanyl chemistry, alleging that the
plaintiffs suffered fear, increased risk, subclinical injuries, and property
damage from exposure to perfluorooctanyl chemistry at or near the Company s
Decatur, Alabama, manufacturing facility. The Circuit Court in 2005 granted the
Company s motion to dismiss the named plaintiff s personal injury-related
claims on the basis that such claims are barred by the exclusivity provisions
of the state s Workers Compensation Act. The plaintiffs  counsel filed an
amended complaint in November 2006, limiting the case to property damage
claims on behalf of a purported class of residents and property owners in the
vicinity of the Decatur plant. Also in 2005, the judge in a second purported
class action lawsuit (filed by three residents of Morgan County, Alabama,
seeking unstated compensatory and punitive damages involving alleged damage to
their property from emissions of perfluorooctanyl compounds from the Company s
Decatur, Alabama, manufacturing facility that formerly manufactured those
compounds) granted the Company s motion to abate the case, effectively putting
the case on hold pending the resolution of class certification issues in the
action described above filed in the same court in 2002. Despite the stay,
plaintiffs filed an amended complaint seeking damages for alleged personal
injuries and property damage on behalf of the named plaintiffs and the members
of a purported class. No further action in the case is expected unless and
until the stay is lifted.  

As previously
reported, two residents of Washington County, Minnesota, filed in October 2004
a purported class action in the District Court of Washington County on behalf
of Washington County residents who have allegedly suffered personal injuries
and property damage from alleged emissions from the former perfluorooctanyl
production facility at Cottage Grove, Minnesota, and from historic waste
disposal sites in the vicinity of that facility. After the District Court
granted the Company s motion to dismiss the claims for medical monitoring and
public nuisance in April 2005, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint
adding additional allegations involving other perfluorinated compounds
manufactured by the Company, alleging additional legal theories in support of
their claims, adding four plaintiffs, and seeking relief based on alleged
contamination of the City of Oakdale municipal water supply and certain private
wells in the vicinity of Lake Elmo, Minnesota. In April 2006, the
plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint adding two additional plaintiffs.
The two original plaintiffs thereafter dismissed their claims against the
Company. On June 19, 2007 the Court denied the plaintiffs  motion to
certify the litigation as a class action. Thereafter, two of the remaining named
plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims. On December 17, 2008 the
Court granted the Company s summary judgment motions dismissing all of the
plaintiffs  claims for damages under the Minnesota Environmental Response and
Liability Act and all claims for personal injury, but allowed the plaintiffs to
add a claim for punitive damages with respect to their property damage claims.
The Court heard argument on the Company s summary judgment motions seeking
dismissal of the plaintiffs  claims based on negligence, nuisance and trespass,
as well as their claim for punitive damages. The Company anticipates rulings on
those summary judgment motions during the first quarter of 2009. Trial is
scheduled to begin on May 4, 2009.  

As previously
reported, several hundred plaintiffs who claim to have lived in the vicinity of
the ACME Barrel Company s storage drum reconditioning facility in Chicago,
Illinois, filed a lawsuit in the third quarter of 2003 in the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, against 3M and a number of other companies that
allegedly were customers of ACME Barrel. Since the Court rejected plaintiffs 
attempt to have this litigation proceed as a class action, 66 individuals have
asserted claims against the Company and several other defendants for damages
allegedly caused by emissions of hazardous materials from the ACME Barrel drum
reconditioning facility. The Company settled all of the individual claims
during the fourth quarter of 2008, subject to court approval.  

Accrued
Liabilities and Insurance Receivables Related to Legal Proceedings   

The Company
complies with the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,
 Accounting for Contingencies , and related guidance, and records liabilities
for legal proceedings in those instances where it can reasonably estimate the
amount of the loss and where liability is probable. Where the reasonable
estimate of the probable loss is a range, the Company records the most likely
estimate of the loss, or the low end of the range if there is no one best
estimate. The Company either discloses the amount of a possible loss or range
of loss in excess of established reserves if estimable, or states that such an
estimate cannot be made. For those insured matters where the Company has taken
a reserve, the Company also records receivables for the amount of insurance
that it expects to recover under the Company s insurance program. For those
insured matters where the Company has not taken a reserve because the liability
is not probable or the amount of the liability is not estimable, or both, but
where the Company has incurred an expense in defending itself, the Company
records receivables for the amount of insurance that it expects to recover for
the expense incurred. The Company discloses significant legal proceedings even
where liability is not probable or the amount of the liability is not
estimable, or both, if the Company believes there is at least a reasonable
possibility that a loss may be incurred.  

89  

Table of Contents   

Because litigation
is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or developments
could occur, there can be no certainty that the Company may not ultimately
incur charges in excess of presently recorded liabilities. A future adverse
ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in future charges
that could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which they are recorded. The Company
currently believes that such future charges, if any, would not have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of the Company, taking
into account its significant available insurance coverage. Based on experience
and developments, the Company periodically reexamines its estimates of probable
liabilities and associated expenses and receivables, and whether it is able to
estimate a liability previously determined to be not estimable and/or not
probable. Where appropriate, the Company makes additions to or adjustments of
its estimated liabilities. As a result, the current estimates of the potential
impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
and cash flows for the legal proceedings and claims pending against the Company
could change in the future.  

The Company
estimates insurance receivables based on an analysis of its numerous policies,
including their exclusions, pertinent case law interpreting comparable
policies, its experience with similar claims, and assessment of the nature of
the claim, and records an amount it has concluded is likely to be recovered.  

The following table shows
the major categories of on-going litigation, environmental remediation and
other environmental liabilities for which the Company has been able to estimate
its probable liability and for which the Company has taken reserves and the
related insurance receivables:  

For those significant
pending legal proceedings that do not appear in the table and that are not the
subject of pending settlement agreements, the Company has determined that
liability is not probable or the amount of the liability is not estimable, or
both, and the Company is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss at
this time. The amounts in the preceding table with respect to breast implant
and environmental remediation represent the Company s best estimate of the
respective liabilities. The Company does not believe that there is any single
best estimate of the respirator/mask/asbestos liability or the other
environmental liabilities shown above, nor that it can reliably estimate the
amount or range of amounts by which those liabilities may exceed the reserves
the Company has established.  

Breast
Implant Liabilities and Insurance Receivables:    As a result of estimated future payments to the
previously reported Global Settlement Fund, the Company increased its reserves
in the fourth quarter of 2008 for breast implant liabilities by $4 million, to
$5 million as of December 31, 2008.  

As of December 31,
2008, the Company s receivable for insurance recoveries related to the breast
implant matter was $6 million. The Company increased its receivables in the
fourth quarter of 2008 for insurance recoveries related to the breast implant
matter by $7 million (bringing the total increase in insurance receivables in
2008 to $12 million) and received payments under the Company s insurance
program of $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 (bringing the total
recoveries in 2008 to $70 million). The Company continues to pursue recovery
against its remaining insurers and expects to collect the remaining receivable.  

Respirator
Mask/Asbestos Liabilities and Insurance Receivables:    The Company estimates its respirator
mask/asbestos liabilities, including the cost to resolve the claim and defense
costs, by examining: (i) the Company s experience in resolving claims, (ii) apparent
trends, (iii) the apparent quality of claims ( e.g., 
whether the claim has been asserted on behalf of asymptomatic claimants), (iv) changes
in the nature and mix of claims ( e.g.,  the
proportion of claims asserting usage of the Company s mask or respirator
products and alleging exposure to each of asbestos, silica, coal or other
occupational dusts, and claims pleading use of asbestos-containing products
allegedly manufactured by the Company), (v) the number of current claims
and a projection of the number of future asbestos and other claims that may be
filed against the Company, (vi) the cost to resolve recently settled
claims, and (vii) an estimate of the cost to resolve and defend against
current and future claims. Because of the inherent difficulty in projecting the
number of claims that have not yet been asserted, particularly with respect to
the Company s respiratory products that themselves did not contain any harmful
materials (which makes the various published studies that purport to project
future asbestos claims substantially removed from the Company s principal
experience and which themselves vary widely), the Company does not believe that
there is any single best estimate of this liability, nor that it  

90  

Table of Contents   

can reliably estimate the
amount or range of amounts by which the liability may exceed the reserve the
Company has established. No liability has been recorded regarding the pending
action brought by the West Virginia Attorney General previously described.  

Developments may occur
that could affect the Company s estimate of its liabilities. These developments
include, but are not limited to, significant changes in (i) the number of
future claims, (ii) the average cost of resolving claims, (iii) the
legal costs of defending these claims and in maintaining trial readiness, (iv) changes
in the mix and nature of claims received, (v) trial and appellate
outcomes, (vi) changes in the law and procedure applicable to these
claims, and (vii) the financial viability of other co-defendants and
insurers.  

As a result of the costs
of aggressively defending itself and the greater cost of resolving claims of
persons with malignant conditions, the Company increased its reserves for
respirator mask/asbestos liabilities by $25 million in 2008, all in the fourth
quarter. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had reserves for respirator
mask/asbestos liabilities of $105 million (excluding Aearo reserves).  

As of December 31,
2008, the Company s receivable for insurance recoveries related to the respirator
mask/asbestos litigation was $193 million. The Company increased its
receivables in the fourth quarter of 2008 for insurance recoveries related to
respirator mask/asbestos litigation by $6 million and received payments under
the Company s insurance program of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2008
(bringing the total recoveries in 2008 to $145 million). The Company currently
has agreements in place to receive another $18 million over the next two
quarters in connection with the respirator mask/asbestos receivable.  

Various factors could
affect the timing and amount of recovery of this receivable, including (i) delays
in or avoidance of payment by insurers; (ii) the extent to which insurers
may become insolvent in the future, and (iii) the outcome of negotiations
with insurers and legal proceedings with respect to respirator mask/asbestos
liability insurance coverage. The difference between the accrued liability and
insurance receivable represents in part the time delay between payment of
claims on the one hand and receipt of insurance reimbursements on the other
hand. Because of the lag time between settlement and payment of a claim, no
meaningful conclusions may be drawn from quarterly or annual changes in the
amount of receivables for expected insurance recoveries or changes in the
number of claimants.  

On January 5, 2007
the Company was served with a declaratory judgment action filed on behalf of
two of its insurers (Continental Casualty and Continental Insurance Co.   both
part of the Continental Casualty Group) disclaiming coverage for respirator
mask/asbestos claims. These insurers represent approximately $14 million of the
$193 million insurance recovery receivable referenced in the above table. The
action was filed in Hennepin County, Minnesota and names, in addition to the
Company, over 60 of the Company s insurers. This action is similar in nature to
an action filed in 1994 with respect to breast implant coverage, which
ultimately resulted in the Minnesota Supreme Court s ruling of 2003 that was
largely in the Company s favor. At the Company s request, the case was
transferred to Ramsey County, over the objections of the insurers. The
Minnesota Supreme Court heard oral argument of the insurers  appeal of that
decision in March 2008 and ruled in May 2008 that the proper venue of
that case is Ramsey County. The Company is awaiting the assignment of a judge
to this matter.  

Environmental
and Other Liabilities and Insurance Receivables:    As of December 31, 2008, the Company
had recorded liabilities of $31 million for estimated environmental remediation
costs based upon an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to
each individual site and also recorded related insurance receivables of $15
million. The Company records liabilities for remediation costs on an
undiscounted basis when they are probable and reasonably estimable, generally
no later than the completion of feasibility studies or the Company s commitment
to a plan of action. Liabilities for estimated costs of environmental remediation,
depending on the site, are based primarily upon internal or third-party
environmental studies, and estimates as to the number, participation level and
financial viability of any other potentially responsible parties, the extent of
the contamination and the nature of required remedial actions. The Company
adjusts recorded liabilities as further information develops or circumstances
change. The Company expects that it will pay the amounts recorded over the
periods of remediation for the applicable sites, currently ranging up to 30
years.  

As of December 31,
2008, the Company had recorded liabilities of $137 million for estimated other
environmental liabilities based upon an evaluation of currently available facts
for addressing trace amounts of perfluorinated compounds in drinking water
sources in the City of Oakdale and Lake Elmo, Minnesota, as well as presence in
the soil and groundwater at the Company s manufacturing facilities in Decatur,
Alabama, and Cottage Grove, Minnesota, and at two former disposal sites in
Minnesota. The Company expects that most of the spending will occur over the
next three to seven years.  

It is difficult to
estimate the cost of environmental compliance and remediation given the
uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of applicable
environmental laws and regulations, the extent of environmental contamination
and the existence of alternate cleanup methods. Developments may occur that
could affect the Company s   

91  

Table of Contents   

current
assessment, including, but not limited to: (i) changes in the information
available regarding the environmental impact of the Company s operations and
products; (ii) changes in environmental regulations, changes in
permissible levels of specific compounds in drinking water sources, or changes
in enforcement theories and policies, including efforts to recover natural
resource damages; (iii) new and evolving analytical and remediation
techniques; (iv) success in allocating liability to other potentially
responsible parties; and (v) the financial viability of other potentially
responsible parties and third-party indemnitors.  

NOTE 15.      Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans     

The Company
sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. These plans are offered to substantially all regular U.S.
employees. Employee contributions of up to 6% of eligible compensation are
matched at rates of 35% or 50%, depending on the plan the employee is
participating in, with additional Company contributions depending upon Company
performance. All Company contributions initially are invested in 3M common
stock, with employee contributions invested in a number of investment funds
pursuant to their elections. Vested employees may diversify their 3M shares
into other investment options.  

During 2008 the
Board of Directors approved various changes to the employee savings plans.
Effective January 1, 2009, employer contributions will no longer be based
on Company performance; however, the matching contributions for eligible
participants hired before January 1, 2009, will increase from 35% to 60%,
or from 50% to 75%, for employee contributions up to the first 6% of eligible
compensation, depending on the plan the employee is participating in. Eligible
participants hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2009, will receive a
cash match of 100% for employee contributions up to the first 6% of eligible compensation
and also receive an employer retirement income account cash contribution of 3%
of the participant s total eligible compensation. Effective January 1,
2010, the matching contributions for participants hired or rehired prior to January 1,
2009, will be made in cash.  

The Company
maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). This plan was established in
1989 as a cost-effective way of funding the majority of the Company s
contributions under 401(k) employee savings plans. Total ESOP shares are
considered to be shares outstanding for earnings per share calculations. The
ESOP debt obligation will mature in 2009 (Note 10).  

Dividends on shares held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP
trust and, together with Company contributions, are used by the ESOP to repay
principal and interest on the outstanding ESOP debt. The tax benefit related to
dividends paid on unallocated shares was charged directly to equity and totaled
approximately $2 million in 2008, $3 million in 2007, and $3 million in
2006. Over the life of the ESOP debt, shares are released for allocation to
participants based on the ratio of the current year s debt service to the
remaining debt service prior to the current payment.  

The ESOP has been the
primary funding source for the Company s employee savings plans. As permitted
by AICPA Statement of Position 93-6,  Employers  Accounting for Employee Stock
Ownership Plans,  the Company has elected to continue its practices, which are
based on Statement of Position 76-3,  Accounting Practices for Certain Employee
Stock Ownership Plans  and subsequent consensus of the EITF of the FASB.
Accordingly, the debt of the ESOP is recorded as debt, and shares pledged as
collateral are reported as unearned compensation in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity and
Comprehensive Income. Unearned compensation is reduced symmetrically as the
ESOP makes principal payments on the debt. Expenses related to the ESOP include
total debt service on the notes, less dividends. The Company contributes
treasury shares, accounted for at fair value, to employee savings plans to
cover obligations not funded by the ESOP (reported as an employee benefit
expense).  

Employee
Savings and Stock Ownership Plans   

92  

Table of Contents   

ESOP
Debt Shares   

NOTE
16.  Stock-Based Compensation     

In May 2008, shareholders approved 35 million
shares for issuance under the  3M 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan , which
replaced and succeeded the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program (MSOP), the
3M Performance Unit Plan, and the 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program.
Shares under this plan may be issued in the form of Incentive Stock Options,
Nonqualified Stock Options, Progressive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation
Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Other Stock Awards, and
Performance Units and Performance Shares. Awards denominated in shares of
common stock other than options and Stock Appreciation Rights, per the 2008
Plan, will be counted against the 35 million share limit as 3.38 shares for
every one share covered by such award. The remaining total shares available for
grant under the 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan Program are 26,842,759 as of December 31,
2008. In 2008 and prior, the Company issued options to eligible employees
annually in May using the closing stock price on the grant date, which was
the date of the Annual Stockholders  Meeting. In addition to these annual
grants, the Company makes other minor grants of stock options, restricted stock
units and other stock-based grants. The Company issues cash settled Restricted
Stock Units and Stock Appreciation Rights in certain countries. These grants do
not result in the issuance of Common Stock and are considered immaterial by the
Company. There were approximately 14,372 participants with outstanding options,
restricted stock, or restricted stock units at December 31, 2008.  

Effective with the May 2005
Management Stock Ownership Program annual grant, the Company changed its
vesting period from one to three years with the expiration date remaining at 10
years from date of grant. Beginning in 2007, the Company reduced the number of
traditional stock options granted under the MSOP plan by reducing the number of
employees eligible to receive annual grants and by shifting a portion of the
annual grant away from traditional stock options primarily to restricted stock
units. However, associated with the reduction in the number of eligible
employees, the Company provided a one-time  buyout  grant of restricted stock
units to the impacted employees, which resulted in increased stock-based
compensation expense in 2007. The income tax benefits shown in the following
table can fluctuate by period due to the amount of Incentive Stock Options
(ISO) exercised since the Company receives the ISO tax benefit upon exercise.
The Company last granted ISO in 2002. Amounts recognized in the financial
statements with respect to stock-based compensation programs, which include
stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and the General
Employees  Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP), are as follows:  

Stock-Based      Compensation
Expense   

93  

Table of Contents   

The following table
summarizes stock option activity during the twelve months ended December 31:  

Stock
Option Program   

*Weighted average  

Outstanding shares
under option include grants from previous plans. For options outstanding at December 31,
2008, the weighted-average remaining contractual life was 60 months and the
aggregate intrinsic value was $98 million. For options exercisable at December 31,
2008, the weighted-average remaining contractual life was 53 months and the
aggregate intrinsic value was $98 million. As of December 31, 2008, there
was $80 million of compensation expense that has yet to be recognized related
to non-vested stock option-based awards. This expense is expected to be recognized
over the remaining vesting period with a weighted-average life of 1.7 years.  

The total
intrinsic values of stock options exercised during 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, was $107 million, $373 million and $289 million. Cash received
from options exercised during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was $188
million, $692 million and $414 million. The Company s actual tax benefits
realized for the tax deductions related to the exercise of employee stock
options for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was $34 million, $122 million
and $93 million. Capitalized stock-based compensation amounts were not material
for the twelve months ended 2008, 2007, and 2006.  

The Company does
not have a specific policy to repurchase common shares to mitigate the dilutive
impact of options; however, the Company has historically made adequate
discretionary purchases, based on cash availability, market trends and other
factors, to satisfy stock option exercise activity.  

For annual and
progressive (reload) options, the weighted average fair value at the date of
grant was calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the
assumptions that follow.  

Stock
Option Assumptions   

Expected volatility is a statistical measure of the
amount by which a stock price is expected to fluctuate during a period. For the
2008, 2007 and 2006 annual grant date, the Company estimated the expected
volatility based upon the average of the most recent one year volatility, the
median of the term of the expected life rolling volatility, the median of the
most recent term of the expected life volatility of 3M stock, and the implied
volatility on the grant date. The expected term assumption is based on the
weighted average of historical grants.  

As previously mentioned, beginning in 2007, the
Company expanded its utilization of restricted stock units. Restricted stock
unit grants do not accrue dividends during the vesting period and generally
vest at the end of three years. The  

94  

Table of Contents   

one-time  buyout  restricted stock unit grant in 2007
vests at the end of five years. The following table summarizes restricted stock
and restricted stock unit activity during the twelve months ended December 31:  

Restricted Stock and 
Restricted Stock Units   

*Weighted average  

As of December 31, 2008, there was $109 million
of compensation expense that has yet to be recognized related to non-vested
restricted stock and restricted stock units. This expense is expected to be
recognized over the remaining vesting period with a weighted-average life of
2.5 years. The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units
that vested during the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively, was $4 million, $6 million and $5 million.  

General
Employees  Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP):    

In May 1997, shareholders approved 30 million shares
for issuance under the Company s GESPP. Substantially all employees are
eligible to participate in the plan. Participants are granted options at 85% of
market value at the date of grant. There are no GESPP shares under option at
the beginning or end of each year because options are granted on the first
business day and exercised on the last business day of the same month.  

General
Employees  Stock Purchase Plan   

*Weighted average  

The weighted-average fair
value per option granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $11.06, $12.24 and
$11.51, respectively. The fair value of GESPP options was based on the 15%
purchase price discount. The Company recognized compensation expense for GESSP
options of $18 million in both 2008 and 2007, and $19 million in 2006.  

NOTE 17.  Business
Segments     

Effective in the first
quarter of 2008, 3M made certain changes to its business segments in its
continuing effort to drive growth by aligning businesses around markets and
customers. The most significant of these changes are summarized as follows:  

3M s Display and Graphics segment created
the Projection Systems Department by combining Visual Systems, 3M Precision
Optics Inc. and the Company s mobile display technology. The new department
focuses on bringing 3M technology to the projection market, providing customers
with a centralized resource dedicated to developing differentiated solutions.
Visual Systems (previously in the Electro and Communications segment) serves
the world s office and education markets with overhead projectors and
transparency films, as well as equipment and materials for electronic and
multimedia presentations. 3M Precision Optics Inc. and the Company s mobile
display technology were previously part of the Optical Systems Division within
the Display and Graphics segment.  

3M s Touch Systems business (previously
in the Display and Graphics segment), which includes touch screens and touch
monitors, was transferred to the Electro and Communications segment. Touch
Systems brings synergistic technologies and strong alignment with 3M s
electronics  divisions and markets.  

Certain adhesives and tapes in the
Industrial Adhesives and Tapes business (Industrial and Transportation segment)
were transferred to the Consumer and Office segment, primarily related to the
Stationery Products business and Construction and Home Improvement business.  

95  

Table of Contents   

The net sales and
operating income amounts presented herein reflect the impact of all of the
preceding changes for all periods presented. Changes in assets, depreciation
and amortization, and capital expenditure amounts were not material and have
not been revised.  

3M s businesses are
organized, managed and internally grouped into segments based on differences in
products, technologies and services. 3M continues to manage its operations in
six operating business segments: Industrial and Transportation segment; Health
Care segment; Safety, Security and Protection Services segment; Consumer and
Office segment; Display and Graphics segment; and Electro and Communications
segment. 3M s six business segments bring together common or related 3M
technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and
providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These segments have
worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines. 3M is not
dependent on any single product or market. Certain small businesses and
lab-sponsored products, as well as various corporate assets and expenses, are
not attributed to the business segments.  

Transactions among
reportable segments are recorded at cost. 3M is an integrated enterprise
characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations and
inventory transfers. Therefore, management does not represent that these
segments, if operated independently, would report the operating income and
other financial information shown. The allocations resulting from the shared
utilization of assets are not necessarily indicative of the underlying activity
for segment assets, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures.  

Business
Segment Products   

Business Segment   

Major Products   

Industrial and Transportation    

Tapes, coated and nonwoven abrasives, adhesives,  specialty
  materials, filtration products, closures for disposable diapers, automotive
  components, abrasion-resistant films,      structural adhesives and paint finishing and
  detailing products   

Health
  Care   

Medical and surgical
  supplies, skin health and infection prevention products, pharmaceuticals
  (sold in December 2006 and January 2007), drug delivery systems,
  dental and orthodontic products, health information systems and microbiology
  products   

Safety,
  Security and Protection Services   

Personal protection
  products, safety and security products, energy control products, commercial
  cleaning and protection products,      floor matting, roofing granules for
  asphalt shingles, and Track and Trace products, such as library patron
  self-checkout systems (supply chain execution software solutions sold in
  June 2008)   

Consumer
  and Office   

Sponges, scouring pads,
  high-performance cloths, consumer      and office tapes, repositionable notes,
  carpet and fabric      protectors, construction and home improvement
  products, home care products, protective material products and consumer
  health care products   

Display
  and Graphics  

Optical films solutions
  for electronic displays, reflective sheeting for transportation safety,
  commercial graphics systems, and projection systems, including mobile display
  technology and visual systems  

Electro
  and Communications   

Packaging and
  interconnection devices, insulating      and splicing solutions for the
  electronics, telecommunications and electrical industries, and touch screens
  and touch monitors   

96  

Table of Contents   

Business
Segment Information   

Segment assets for
the operating business segments (excluding Corporate and Unallocated) primarily
include accounts receivable; inventory; property, plant and equipment   net; goodwill and intangible assets;
and other miscellaneous assets. Assets included in Corporate and Unallocated
principally are cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; insurance
receivables; deferred income taxes; certain investments and other assets,
including prepaid pension assets. Corporate and unallocated assets can change
from year to year due to changes in cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities, changes in prepaid pension benefits, and changes in other
unallocated asset categories. For management reporting purposes, corporate
goodwill (which at December 31, 2008, totaled $487 million) is not
allocated to the six operating business segments. In Note 3, corporate goodwill
has been allocated to the respective market segments as required by SFAS No. 142
for impairment testing.  

Corporate and
Unallocated operating income includes a variety of miscellaneous items, such as
corporate investment gains and losses, certain derivative gains and losses,
insurance-related gains and losses, certain litigation and environmental
expenses, corporate restructuring charges and certain under- or over-absorbed
costs (e.g. pension) that the Company may choose not to allocate directly to
its business segments. Because this category includes a variety of
miscellaneous items, it is subject to fluctuation on a quarterly and annual
basis.  

The most
significant items impacting 2008 results were restructuring actions and exit
activities. The most significant items impacting both 2007 and 2006 results are
the net gain on sale of the pharmaceuticals business (within the Health Care
segment) and restructuring and other actions. Refer to Note 2 for discussion of
divestitures and Note 4 for discussion of restructuring actions and exit
activities.  

97  

Table of Contents   

NOTE
18.      Geographic Areas     

Geographic area
information is used by the Company as a secondary performance measure to manage
its businesses. Effective in the first quarter of 2008, the Company changed its
allocations of research, development and related expenses (R D) to more
closely align these costs with the geographic areas that benefit. Thus,
operating income information presented below has been updated for all periods
presented to reflect these changes, with no change in worldwide results. Export
sales and certain income and expense items are generally reported within the
geographic area where the final sales to 3M customers are made.  

Restructuring and
exit activities significantly impacted results by geographic area in 2008, 2007
and 2006. In 2007 and 2006, results were also significantly impacted by the
sale of businesses. Refer to Note 2 and Note 4 for discussion of these items.  

Asia Pacific
includes Japan net sales to customers of $2.180 billion in 2008, $2.063 billion
in 2007, and $2.048 billion in 2006. Asia Pacific includes Japan net
property, plant and equipment of $420 million in 2008, $357 million in
2007, and $345 million in 2006.  

NOTE
19.  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)     

Gross profit is
calculated as net sales minus cost of sales. In 2008, restructuring and other
items decreased net income by $194 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, with
$140 million, or $0.20 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2008.   2008 included
restructuring actions, exit activities and a loss on sale of businesses, which
were partially offset by a gain on sale of real estate. In 2007, gains on sales
of businesses and real estate, net of restructuring and other items, increased
net income by $448 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, with $422 million, or
$0.57 per diluted share recorded in the first quarter of 2007. 2007 included
net benefits from   gains
related to the sale of businesses and a gain on sale of real estate, which were
partially offset by increases in environmental liabilities, restructuring
actions, and other exit activities.  

98  

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.      

None.  

Item
9A.  Controls and Procedures.      

a. The Company carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of its management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the Company s  disclosure controls and procedures  (as
defined in the    Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e))
as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation,
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  

b. The Company s
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system
of internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).
Management conducted an assessment of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework.  Based on the assessment, management
concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company s internal control
over financial reporting is effective. Management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008 excluded Aearo, which was acquired by the Company in April 2008 in a
purchase business combination. Aearo is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company whose total assets and total net sales represented less than 10% of
consolidated total assets and less than 2% of consolidated net sales,
respectively, of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31,
2008. Companies are allowed to exclude acquisitions from their assessment of
internal control over financial reporting during the first year of acquisition
while integrating the acquired company under guidelines established by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
as stated in their report which is included herein, which expresses an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.  

c. There was    no
change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the Company s most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting.  

Item 9B.  Other
Information.      

None.  

PART III     

Documents
Incorporated by Reference   

In response to Part III,
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14, parts of the Company s definitive proxy statement
(to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant s
fiscal year-end of December 31, 2008) for its annual meeting to be held on
May 12, 2009, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  

Item 10.  Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.      

The information relating to directors and nominees of 3M is set forth
under the caption  Proposal No. 1   Election of Directors  in 3M s proxy
statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 12,
2009 ( 3M Proxy Statement ) and is incorporated by reference herein.
Information about executive officers is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. The information required by Items 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and
(d)(5) of Regulation S-K is contained under the captions  Governance of
the Company   Director Nomination Process ,  Board and Committee Membership  
Audit Committee  of the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated
by reference herein.  

Code of Ethics. All of our
employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, are required to abide by 3M s
long-standing business conduct policies to ensure that our business is
conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. 3M has posted the text of
such code of ethics on its website (http://www.3M.com/businessconduct). At the
same website, any future amendments to the code of ethics will also be posted.
Any person may request a copy of the code of ethics, at no cost, by writing to
us at the following address:  

3M Company   
  3M Center, Building 220-9E-02   
  St. Paul, MN  55144-1000   
  Attention: Director, Business Conduct and Compliance  

99  

Table of Contents   

Item 11.  Executive
Compensation.      

The information required
by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is contained under the captions  Executive
Compensation  (excluding the information under the caption    Compensation
Committee Report ) and  Director Compensation and Stock Ownership Guidelines 
of the 3M Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated by reference.  

The information
required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K is contained
under the captions  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 
and  Executive Compensation   Compensation Committee Report  of the 3M Proxy
Statement. Such information (other than the Compensation Committee Report,
which shall not be deemed to be  filed ) is incorporated by reference.  

Item 12.  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.      

The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management is set forth under the designation  Beneficial Ownership
Table  and  Security Ownership of More Than 5 Percent Stockholders  in the 3M
Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.  

Equity
compensation plans information follows:  

Equity
Compensation Plans Information (1)   

(1) In column
B, the weighted-average exercise price is only applicable to stock options. In
column C, the number of securities remaining available for future issuance for
stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units is approved in total
and not individually with respect to these items.  

Item 13.  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.      

With respect to certain relationships and related transactions as set
forth in Item 404 of Regulation S-K, no matters require disclosure. The
information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is contained under the
caption  Governance of the Company   Director Independence  of the 3M Proxy
Statement and such information is incorporated by reference herein.  

Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services.      

The information relating to principal accounting fees and services is set
forth under the designation  Fees of the Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  in the 3M Proxy Statement and such information is incorporated
by reference herein.  

100  

Table of Contents   

PART IV     

Item 15.  Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules.      

(a) (1) Financial
Statements. The consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report
are listed in the index to financial statements on page 40 as follows:  

(a) (2) Financial
Statement Schedules. Financial statement schedules are omitted because of the
absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the required
information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes
thereto. The financial statements of unconsolidated subsidiaries are omitted
because, considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant
subsidiary.  

(a) (3) Exhibits.
The exhibits are either filed with this report or incorporated by reference
into this report. Exhibit numbers 10.1 through 10.41 are management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. See (b) Exhibits, which
follow.  

(b) Exhibits.  

Index
to Exhibits:     

(3)  

Articles
  of Incorporation and bylaws  

(3.1)  

Certificate of
  incorporation, as amended as of May 11, 2007, is incorporated by
  reference from our Form 8-K dated May 14, 2007.  

(3.2)  

Bylaws, as
  amended as of February 10, 2009, is incorporated by reference from our
  Form 8-K dated February 12, 2009.  

(4)  

Instruments
  defining the rights of security holders, including indentures:  

(4.1)  

Indenture, dated
  as of November 17, 2000, between 3M and Citibank, N.A., with respect to
  3M s senior debt securities, is incorporated by reference from our
  Form 8-K dated December 7, 2000.  

(4.2)  

Indenture, dated
  as of November 21, 2002, between 3M and Citibank, N.A., with respect to
  Liquid Yield Option  Notes zero coupon senior debt securities, is
  incorporated by reference from Registration No. 333-103234 on
  Form S-3 filed on February 14, 2003.  

(4.3)  

First
  Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2005, to Indenture
  between 3M and Citibank, N.A., with respect to Liquid Yield Option  Notes
  zero coupon senior debt securities, is incorporated by reference from our 8-K
  dated November 17, 2005.  

(4.4)  

Except as set
  forth in the preceding Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, the instruments defining the
  rights of holders of long-term debt securities of 3M have been omitted. We
  agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of such instruments with
  respect to issuances of long-term debt of 3M.  

(10)  

Material
  contracts and management compensation plans and arrangements:  

(10.1)  

3M
  2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (including amendments through
  February 2009) is filed herewith.  

(10.2)  

Form of
  Agreement for Stock Option Grants to Executive Officers under 3M 2008
  Long-Term Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K
  dated May 13, 2008.  

(10.3)  

Form of
  Stock Option Agreement for U.S. Employees under 3M 2008 Long-Term Incentive
  Plan is filed herewith.  

(10.4)  

Form of
  Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for U.S. Employees under 3M 2008 Long-Term
  Incentive Plan is filed herewith.  

101  

Table
of Contents   

102  

Table
of Contents   

103  

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

3M COMPANY  

By   

/s/ Patrick D.
  Campbell  

Patrick D.
  Campbell,  

Senior Vice
  President and Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal
  Financial Officer)  

February 13,
  2009  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated on February 13, 2009.  

Signature   

Title   

George W. Buckley  

Chairman
  of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
  Officer and Director)  

David W. Meline  

Vice
  President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting
  Officer)  

Linda G. Alvarado  

Director  

Vance D. Coffman  

Director  

Michael L. Eskew  

Director  

W. James Farrell  

Director  

Herbert L. Henkel  

Director  

Edward M. Liddy  

Director  

Robert S. Morrison  

Director  

Aulana L. Peters  

Director  

Robert J. Ulrich  

Director  

Patrick D.
Campbell, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document pursuant
to powers of attorney duly executed by the other persons named, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on behalf of such other persons, all in the
capacities and on the date stated, such persons constituting a majority of the
directors of the Company.  

By   

/s/ Patrick D.
  Campbell  

Patrick D.
  Campbell,  Attorney-in-Fact   

104  

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a09-1282_1ex10d1.htm
 EX-10.1

EXHIBIT
10.1   

(Including amendments   

   through February 2009)   

3M 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN   

1.                                              Purposes.   

The purposes of this plan
are to help 3M attract, retain and motivate outstanding employees to increase
shareholder value by contributing to the long-term growth and success of its
business; to more closely align the financial interests of these employees with
those of 3M s other shareholders by linking a significant portion of their
compensation to the performance of the Company and its stock price; to
encourage employees to acquire an equity stake in the Company; to help 3M
attract and retain well-qualified individuals to serve as nonemployee members
of its Board of Directors; and to promote the alignment of interests of these
nonemployee directors with those of 3M s other shareholders by providing all or
a portion of their compensation for serving as directors in the form of 3M
common stock.  

This plan is intended to
replace and succeed the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program, the 3M
Performance Unit Plan, and the 1992 Directors Stock Ownership Program.  

2.                                              Definitions.   

(a)                                       Affiliate  means any entity that is
directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or in which the Company has a
significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee.  

(b)                                      Award  means any Incentive Stock Option,
Nonqualified Stock Option, Progressive Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right,
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit, Performance Share or
other Stock Award granted to a Participant under this Plan.  

(c)                                       Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.  

(d)                                      Committee  means the Compensation
Committee of 3M s Board of Directors.  

(e)                                       Common Stock  means the common stock of
3M Company with a par value of $0.01 per share.  

(f)                                         Company  means 3M Company, a Delaware
corporation.  

(g)                                      Disqualifying Termination  means a
termination of a Participant s employment with the Company or an Affiliate due
to (i) a material violation of any policy of the Company or such
Affiliate, including, without limitation, any policy contained in the Company s
Business Conduct Manual, or (ii) embezzlement from or theft of property
belonging to the Company or such Affiliate.  

(h)                                      Dividend Equivalents  means, on any
dividend record date, that amount of cash or shares equal in value to the
dividend payable on shares of Common Stock as declared by 3M s Board of
Directors with respect to such dividend record date.  

(i)                                          Fair Market Value  means the closing
price for a share of Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Transactions.  

(j)                                          Full Value Award  means any Award
denominated or paid in shares of Common Stock other than an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right.  

1  

(k)                                       Grant Date  means the effective date of
an Award granted to a Participant under this Plan.  

(l)                                          Incentive Stock Option  means an Option
granted under this Plan which satisfies the requirements of section 422 of the
Code and is so designated in the written or electronic documents evidencing
such Option.  

(m)                                    Nonqualified Stock Option  means an
Option granted under this Plan which is not an Incentive Stock Option.  

(n)                                      Option  means a Participant s right to
purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a specified price for
a specified period of time.  

(o)                                      Participant  means an employee of the
Company or an Affiliate whose participation in the Plan has been approved by
the Committee, or a nonemployee member of 3M s Board of Directors.  

(p)                                      Performance Criteria  means such
internal performance criteria for the Company or any business segment thereof
as determined by the Committee with respect to each Performance Unit or
Performance Share and may include any one or more of several criteria, such as,
but not limited to, return on capital employed, return on assets or net assets,
net sales, sales growth, cash flow, earnings per share or improvement in
earnings per share, return on equity, stock price, gross margin, operating
margin, total shareholder return, economic value added, economic profit or
improvements in economic profit (after-tax operating income, excluding
non-recurring items, less the cost of capital), earnings before interest and
taxes, EBITDA, operating income or improvement in operating income, improvements
in certain asset or financial measures (including working capital and the ratio
of sales to net working capital), reductions in certain asset or cost areas
(including reductions in inventories or accounts receivable or reductions in
laboratory, engineering, sales or administrative costs), net income or
variations of income criteria in varying time periods, adjusted net income or
improvement in adjusted net income, or general comparisons with other peer
companies or industry groups or classifications with regard to one or more of
these criteria.  Such criteria shall
include a target for payment of the Performance Unit or Performance Share at
full face value and upper and lower limits for the measurement of payment to
Participants.  

(q)                                      Performance Period  means a period of no
less than three years, as determined by the Committee, during which Performance
Criteria shall be measured for purposes of calculating the payment with respect
to each Performance Unit or Performance Share.  

(r)                                         Performance Share  means the right of a
Participant to receive a payment in the form of shares of Common Stock based
upon the performance of the Company during a Performance Period as measured by
the Performance Criteria approved by the Committee.  

(s)                                       Performance Unit  means the right of a
Participant to receive a payment in cash or shares of Common Stock based upon
the performance of the Company during a Performance Period as measured by the
Performance Criteria approved by the Committee.  

(t)                                         Plan  means this 3M 2008 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.  

(u)                                      Predecessor Plan  means the 1997
Management Stock Ownership Program, the 2002 Management Stock Ownership
Program, and the 2005 Management Stock Ownership Program.  

(v)                                      Progressive Stock Option  means a
Nonqualified Stock Option granted to a Participant under this Plan upon the
exercise of a nonqualified stock option granted under the 1997 or the 2002
Management Stock Ownership Programs where such Participant makes payment for
all or part of the purchase price and withholding taxes in shares of Common
Stock.  

2  

(w)                                    Restricted Period     means
that period of time determined by the Committee during which a Participant
shall not be permitted to sell or transfer shares of Restricted Stock granted
under this Plan, and during which a Participant s interest in Restricted Stock
Units or Restricted Stock granted under this Plan remains subject to
forfeiture.  Unless otherwise determined
by the Committee, any time-based Restricted Period shall be at least three
years.  

(x)                                        Restricted Stock     means
shares of Common Stock granted to a Participant under the Plan subject to
certain restrictions during the Restricted Period established by the Committee.  

(y)                                      Restricted Stock Unit  means the right
of a Participant to receive an amount of cash or Common Stock based on the Fair
Market Value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock following a
Restricted Stock Period, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee
may establish.  

(z)                                        Retires  or  Retirement  means the
termination of a Participant s employment with the Company or an Affiliate
after attaining age 55 with at least five years of employment service.  

(aa)                                 Stock Appreciation Right     means a Participant s right to receive an amount of cash or
shares of Common Stock equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a
specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the right is exercised
over the Fair Market Value of such number of shares of Common Stock on the
Grant Date.  

(bb)                               Stock Award  means any award of Common
Stock under the Plan and may include Restricted Stock awards or other awards of
Common Stock as determined appropriate by the Committee.  

3.                                              Eligibility.   

The Committee will have
the exclusive power and authority (except as it may delegate such power and
authority as permitted herein) to select the executives and other employees of
the Company and its Affiliates who may participate in this Plan by receiving
Awards made hereunder.  All nonemployee
members of the 3M Board of Directors shall also be eligible to participate in
and receive Awards made hereunder.  

4.                                              Shares Available for Awards.   

Unless otherwise
authorized by the Company s stockholders, the total number of shares of Common
Stock that may be issued or delivered pursuant to Awards granted under this
Plan will be 35,000,000.  Of this total,
no more than 35,000,000 may be issued or delivered upon the exercise of
Incentive Stock Options.  The necessary
shares shall be made available at the discretion of the Board of Directors from
authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, or shares reacquired by the
Company under corporate repurchase programs.  

The following rules shall
apply for the purpose of determining the number of shares of Common Stock
remaining available for issuance under the Plan:  

(a)                                      If an Award is denominated in a fixed
number of shares of Common Stock on the Grant Date, the number of shares
covered by such Award (as in the case of an Option or Restricted Stock grant)
or to which such Award relates (as in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right)
will be counted on the Grant Date against the total number of shares available
for issuance or delivery under the Plan. 
If an Award is not denominated in a fixed number of shares of Common
Stock on the Grant Date (but is potentially payable in such shares or the final
number of shares is not determined until the completion of a Performance
Period), only the number of shares of Common Stock actually issued  

3  

or delivered as a result
of such Award, if any, shall be counted against the total number of shares
available for issuance or delivery under the Plan.  

(b)                                     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4(a) above,
each Full Value Award will be counted against the total number of shares
available for issuance or delivery under the Plan as 3.38 shares for every one
share covered by such Award.  

(c)                                      When an Award granted under this Plan and
denominated in shares of Common Stock (or any portion thereof) expires, is
cancelled, is forfeited or is otherwise terminated without the issuance of such
shares, or is settled in cash or consideration other than shares of Common
Stock, then the shares of Common Stock previously counted against the total
number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the Plan on account
of such Award (or portion thereof) will again be made available for issuance
hereunder.  When an award granted under a
Predecessor Plan and denominated in shares of Common Stock (or any portion
thereof) expires, is cancelled, is forfeited or is otherwise terminated without
the issuance of such shares, or is settled in cash or consideration other than
shares of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock previously counted
against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under
such Predecessor Plan on account of such Award (or portion thereof) will be
added to the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under
this Plan.  Notwithstanding the rest of
this Section 4(c), the following shares of Common Stock will not be added
to the total number of shares available or be made available again for issuance
under this Plan: (i) shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net
settlement of an outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right; (ii) shares
delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the exercise price of or the
withholding taxes with respect to an award; and (iii) shares repurchased
on the open market with the proceeds from the payment of the exercise price of
an option.  

(d)                                     Any shares of Common Stock related to
Awards granted through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding
awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or an Affiliate
or with which the Company or any Affiliate combines, shall not be counted
against the total number of shares available for issuance or delivery under the
Plan.  

(e)                                      The payment of stock dividends and
Dividend Equivalents settled in shares of Common Stock in    conjunction
with outstanding Awards shall not be counted against the total number of shares
available for issuance or delivery under the Plan.  

5.                                              Terms of Awards.   

The Committee shall
determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant, which
shall be evidenced by such written or electronic documents as the Committee
shall authorize; provided, however, that nonemployee members of the 3M Board of
Directors shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, Progressive
Stock Options, Performance Units or Performance Shares.  The following types of Awards may be granted
under this Plan:  

(a)                                      Incentive Stock Options   Incentive Stock
Options granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant
Date.  Incentive Stock Options granted
hereunder shall become exercisable at such time as shall be established by the
Committee and reflected in the documents evidencing such Options, and unless
sooner terminated shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.  

(b)                                     Nonqualified Stock Options   Nonqualified
Stock Options granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to no less
than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
Stock on the Grant Date.  Nonqualified
Stock Options granted hereunder shall become exercisable and shall expire at
such time or times as shall be established by the Committee and reflected in
the documents evidencing such Options; provided, however, that no Nonqualified
Stock Option shall expire later than ten years after the Grant Date (except
that the  

4  

Committee may extend the
exercise period for Nonqualified Stock Options granted to Participants in any
country or countries for an additional period of up to one year if and to the
extent necessary to prevent adverse tax consequences to such Participants under
the laws of such country).  

(c)                                        Progressive
Stock Options -        Whenever        a Participant exercises a nonqualified stock option
granted under the 1997 or 2002 Management Stock Ownership Program and makes
payment of all or part of the purchase price and withholding taxes, if any, in
Common Stock, the Committee may in its discretion grant such Participant a
Progressive Stock Option.  The number of
shares subject to such Progressive Stock Option shall be equal to the number of
shares of Common Stock utilized by the Participant to effect payment of the
exercise price and withholding taxes, if any, for such nonqualified stock
option.  Each Progressive Stock Option
granted hereunder shall have an exercise price equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of
exercise of the nonqualified stock option, which shall be the Grant Date of
such Progressive Stock Option.  Each
Progressive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable six months
after the Grant Date, and shall expire at the same time the nonqualified stock
option exercised by the Participant would have expired.  

(d)                                     Stock Appreciation Rights - The term of a
Stock Appreciation Right shall be fixed by the Committee and set forth in the
documents evidencing such right, but no Stock Appreciation Right shall be
exercisable more than ten years after the Grant Date.  Each Stock Appreciation Right shall become
exercisable at the time or times determined by the Committee and set forth in
the documents evidencing such right. 
Each Stock Appreciation Right granted hereunder shall have a grant price
equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of
Common Stock on the Grant Date.  

(e)                                      Restricted Stock - At the time a grant of
Restricted Stock is made, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall
establish a Restricted Period and such additional terms and conditions as may
be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete lapse of
restrictions with respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock
represented by the Restricted Stock.  The
Committee may also, in its sole discretion, shorten or terminate the Restricted
Period or waive any terms or conditions for the lapse of restrictions with
respect to all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock represented by the
Restricted Stock.  During the Restricted
Period the Participant shall generally have the rights and privileges of a
stockholder as to such Restricted Stock, including the right to vote such
Restricted Stock and receive dividend payments, except that the following
restrictions shall apply: (i) none of the Restricted Stock may be sold,
transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during
the Restricted Period and until the satisfaction of any other terms and
conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any; and (ii) all of the
Restricted Stock shall be forfeited and all rights of the Participant shall
terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the
Participant shall have remained a regular full-time employee of the Company or
an Affiliate until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and
the satisfaction of the other terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee,
if any.  Any Restricted Stock granted
under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may determine,
in its discretion, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or
issuance of one or more stock certificates bearing an appropriate legend
recognizing the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such
Restricted Stock.  Upon the forfeiture of
any Restricted Stock, such shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted
Stock shall be transferred to the Company without further action by the
Participant.  

(f)                                        Restricted Stock Units - At the time a
grant of Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee, in its sole discretion,
shall establish a Restricted Period and such additional terms and conditions as
may be deemed appropriate for the incremental lapse or complete lapse of
restrictions with respect to all or any portion of such Restricted Stock Units.  The Committee may also, in its sole
discretion, shorten or terminate the Restricted Period or waive any terms or
conditions for the lapse of restrictions with respect to all or any portion of
the Restricted Stock Units.  During the
Restricted Period the Participant will not have the rights and privileges of a
stockholder as to such Restricted Stock Units, including the right to vote and
receive dividend payments with respect to the shares of Common Stock
corresponding to such Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that at the
sole discretion of the Committee, Dividend Equivalents may be either currently
paid in cash or shares or withheld by the Company for the Participant s  

5  

account and either
maintained in cash to be paid upon the expiration of the Restricted Period or
reinvested in additional Restricted Stock Units.  Each grant of Restricted Stock Units shall be
subject to the following restrictions: (i) the Participant shall not be
entitled to the payment of cash or the delivery of the shares of Common Stock
corresponding to such Restricted Stock Units until the expiration or
termination of the Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any other terms
and conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any; (ii) none of the
Restricted Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or
otherwise encumbered or disposed of at any time; and (iii) all of the
Restricted Stock Units and any deferred Dividend Equivalents shall be forfeited
and all rights of the Participant shall terminate without further obligation on
the part of the Company upon the termination of the Participant s employment
with the Company or an Affiliate prior to the end of the Restricted Period for
any reason other than Retirement, total disability or death; provided, however,
that if the Committee so decides and the documents evidencing an Award of
Restricted Stock Units so provide, the preceding exception allowing such
Restricted Stock Units to vest following the Participant s Retirement shall not
apply so that such Restricted Stock Units and any deferred Dividend Equivalents
will be forfeited and all rights of the Participant shall terminate without
further obligation on the part of the Company upon the Retirement of such
Participant prior to the end of the Restricted Period.  

(g)                                     Other Stock Awards - The Committee may,
in its sole discretion, grant Stock Awards other than Restricted Stock grants
or Restricted Stock Units, and such Stock Awards may be granted singly, in
combination or in tandem with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to grants
or rights under this Plan or any other employee benefit or compensation plan of
the Company, including the plan of any acquired entity.  If the Committee shall stipulate terms and
conditions with respect to such Stock Awards, the terms and conditions will be
set forth in the documents evidencing the Award.  If the terms and conditions with respect to
any Stock Award shall require the surrender or forfeiture of other grants or
rights under this Plan or any other employee benefit or compensation plan of
the Company, then the Participant shall not have any rights under such Stock
Award until the grants or rights exchanged have been fully and effectively
surrendered or forfeited.  

(h)                                     Performance Units and Performance Shares
  At the time it approves each grant of Performance Units or Performance
Shares, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Units or
Performance Shares granted to each Participant, the proration, if any, of such
Performance Units or Performance Shares if the Participant retires prior to the
completion of the relevant Performance Period, the commencement and expiration
of the relevant Performance Period, and the Performance Criteria by which the
payment value of the Performance Units or Performance Shares will be
determined.  Payment of each Performance
Unit and Performance Share shall occur no later than the March 15 of the
year immediately following the completion of the respective Performance Period,
unless a Participant shall have made an effective election to defer the receipt
of such payment pursuant to the terms of the 3M Deferred Compensation Plan and
all applicable laws.  The amount payable
with respect to each Performance Unit and Performance Share shall be contingent
upon the attainment of the Performance Criteria selected by the Committee
during the respective Performance Period, and upon the continued employment of
the Participant throughout such Performance Period (or upon the Participant s
Retirement prior to the end of such Performance Period).  

6.                                              Payment of Awards.   

Payment of Awards may be
in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock or combinations thereof as the
Committee shall determine, and with such other restrictions as it may
impose.  The Committee may permit or
require the deferral of any Award payment, subject to such terms, rules and
conditions as the Committee may establish, which may include provisions for the
payment or crediting of interest or Dividend Equivalents; provided, however,
that the Committee shall not have any authority to permit or require the
deferral of any Award payment to the extent that the exercise of such authority
would cause any excise tax to become due under section 409A of the Code.  

No shares of Common Stock
shall be issued to any Participant upon the exercise of an Option granted under
this Plan until full payment of the exercise price has been made to the Company
and the Participant has remitted to the Company the required withholding taxes,
if any.  Payment of the exercise price
and withholding taxes, if any, may be  

6  

made in whole or in part
in shares of Common Stock, pursuant to such terms and conditions as may be
established from time to time by the Committee. 
If payment is made in shares of Common Stock, such shares shall be
valued at their Fair Market Value on the day the Participant exercises the
Option or, as regards a withholding tax, on the date when the tax obligation
becomes due.  A Participant need not
surrender shares of already owned Common Stock as payment, and the Company may,
upon the giving of satisfactory evidence of ownership of such shares by the
Participant, deliver the appropriate number of additional shares of Common
Stock reduced by the number of shares required to pay the exercise price and
any required withholding taxes.  Such
form of evidence shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion.  

In no event will the
Company be required to deliver any fractional share of Common Stock in
connection with any Award.  In the event
that a Participant shall be entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Common
Stock in connection with an Award granted under the Plan, the Company shall pay
in cash, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share.  

7.                                              Termination of Awards.   

If a Participant s
employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated for any reason other
than (i) a Disqualifying Termination, (ii) Retirement, (iii) a
termination in connection with which the Participant executes a written release
of employment-related claims in favor of the Company that provides (with the
approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of Options and Stock
Appreciation Rights, (iv) a physical or mental disability as recognized
under a benefit plan maintained by the Participant s employer, or (v) death,
and prior to the date of termination the Participant has not fully exercised an
Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan, such Participant
may exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right within ninety (90) days
following the date of termination (but not beyond the expiration date of such
Option or Right) for the number of shares which the Participant could have
purchased or received a payment on the date of termination.  At the conclusion of such ninety-day period
(with respect to the Participant s Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, and
at the time of termination with respect to any other Awards), participation
hereunder shall cease and all of the Participant s Awards granted under this
Plan shall be automatically forfeited unless the documents evidencing such
Awards provide otherwise.  

If a Participant Retires,
terminates employment with the Company or an Affiliate and in connection with
such termination the Participant executes a written release of
employment-related claims in favor of the Company that provides (with the
approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of Options and Stock
Appreciation Rights, or changes employment status as a result of a physical or
mental disability as recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the
Participant s employer, without having fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right, the Participant shall be entitled, within the remaining
term of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (but not beyond the expiration
date of such Option or Right), to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation
Right (provided, however, that in the event of a termination in connection with
which the Participant executes a written release of employment-related claims
in favor of the Company that provides (with the approval of the Company) for
the nonforfeiture of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the additional time
to exercise Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall apply only to those
Options and Stock Appreciation Rights which have vested prior to the date of
termination of employment).  If a
Participant who has thus Retired dies, without having fully exercised an Option
or Stock Appreciation Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any
portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of the Participant s death)
may be exercised within two years after the date of his or her death (but not
beyond the expiration date of such Option or Right) by the Participant s estate
or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such Option or Stock
Appreciation Right by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the death of the
Participant.  

If a Participant, prior
to Retirement, dies without having fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right, the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including any
portion thereof not already exercisable at the time of the Participant s death)
may be exercised within two years following his or her death (but not beyond
the expiration date of such Option  

7  

or Right) by the
Participant s estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise such
Option or Stock Appreciation Right by bequest or inheritance or by reason of
the death of the Participant.  

Notwithstanding the rest
of this Section 7, if a Participant s employment with the Company or an
Affiliate is terminated before he or she has fully exercised an Option or Stock
Appreciation Right under circumstances which the Committee believes to warrant
special consideration and the Committee has determined that the Participant s
rights should not be forfeited at the time or times specified above, the Option
or Stock Appreciation Right (including any portion thereof not already
exercisable at the time of termination) may be exercised within two years
following his or her termination of employment (but not beyond the expiration
date of such Option or Right).  

If a Participant dies,
either prior to or following Retirement, or becomes  disabled  within the
meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code, and has not yet received the
stock certificate for the shares of Common Stock represented by a grant of
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Award, then all
restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period and any other terms and
conditions prescribed by the Committee, if any, shall automatically lapse and a
stock certificate shall be delivered to the Participant or the Participant s
beneficiary, representative, or estate, as the case may be upon the Participant s
demonstration to the satisfaction of the Committee that such Participant is
considered  disabled  for purposes of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.  

If a Participant Retires
or changes employment status as a result of a physical or mental disability as
recognized under a benefit plan maintained by the Participant s employer prior
to the payment date for an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units,
such Retirement or change in status shall not affect any rights of the
Participant with respect to such Performance Shares or Performance Units;
provided, however, that the Committee may provide for the proration of the
Performance Shares or Performance Units granted to a Participant who Retires
prior to the completion of the Performance Period for such Performance Shares
or Performance Units.  

If a Participant dies
without having received payment of any Performance Shares or Performance Units
granted under this Plan, payment of such Shares or Units shall be made no later
than March 15 of the year following the year in which the Participant died
to such Participant s surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries or, if there shall
be no such surviving beneficiaries, to such Participant s estate in the
following manner:  

(i)  If the
Participant dies after the expiration of a Performance Period for such
Performance Shares or Performance Units, the payment shall be at the same rate
as that paid to other Participants who survive until the payment date; and  

(ii)  If the
Participant dies before the expiration of a Performance Period for such
Performance Shares or Performance Units, the amount of payment shall be at the
lesser of:  

the face or target value of each outstanding
Performance Share or Performance Unit for which payment has not been made; or  

any other amount approved, in its discretion, by the
Committee.  

If a Participant s
employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated due to a
Disqualifying Termination, participation hereunder shall cease and all of the
Participant s Awards granted under this Plan shall be automatically forfeited.  

Participation hereunder
shall cease and all rights under the Plan with respect to Restricted Stock or
other Stock Awards granted to a Participant who has been participating in this
Plan as a nonemployee member of the 3M Board of Directors are automatically
forfeited by the Participant upon the date of termination of his or her
membership on the 3M  

8  

Board of Directors for
any reason other than: (i) retirement, (ii) physical or mental
disability as determined by the Committee, or (iii) death.  

8.                                              Limits on Awards.   

No Participant shall be
granted Options and Stock Appreciation Rights under this Plan with respect to
more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock in any calendar year.  No Participant shall receive cash, vested
shares of Common Stock or other property as a result of Awards granted under
this Plan, other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, having a value
exceeding $30,000,000 in any calendar year.  

9.                                              Plan Administration.   

This Plan will be
administered by the Committee, which shall have full power and authority to
select the Participants, interpret the Plan, continue, accelerate or suspend
the exercisability or vesting of an Award, and adopt such rules and
procedures for operating the Plan as it may deem necessary or appropriate.  Its power and authority shall include, but
not be limited to, making any amendments to or modifications of the Plan which
may be required or necessary to make such Plan comply with the provisions of
any laws or regulations of any country or unit thereof in which the Company or
any Affiliate operates.  To do so, the
Committee may establish different terms and conditions for Awards made to
Participants who live in or are subject to taxation in one or more countries
other than the United States in order to accommodate the tax or other relevant
laws of such countries.  The Committee
may adopt one or more supplements or sub-plans under the Plan to implement
these different terms and conditions.  

10.                                       Delegation of Authority.   

To the extent permitted
by Delaware law, the Committee may delegate to officers of the Company any or
all of its duties, power and authority under this Plan subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish; provided, however,
that no officer shall have or obtain the authority to grant Awards to (i) himself
or herself, (ii) nonemployee members of the 3M Board of Directors, or (iii) any
person subject to section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

11.                                       Adjustments.   

In the event of any
change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of a stock
split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of shares,
recapitalization, merger or similar event, the Committee shall adjust
proportionately: (a) the number of shares of Common Stock (i) available
for issuance or delivery under this Plan in accordance with Section 4, (ii) for
which Awards may be granted to a single Participant in accordance with Section 8,
and (iii) subject to outstanding Awards granted under this Plan; (b) the
exercise prices of outstanding Awards; and (c) the appropriate Fair Market
Value and other price determinations for such Awards.  In the event of any other change affecting
the Common Stock or any distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to
holders of Common Stock, such adjustments in the number or kind of shares and
the exercise prices, Fair Market Value and other price determinations of the
affected Awards as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine are
equitable, shall be made and shall be effective and binding for all purposes of
such outstanding Awards.  In the event of
a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets or stock, separation,
reorganization or liquidation, the Committee shall be authorized to cause the
Company to assume outstanding employee awards or issue replacement Awards to
affected employees, whether or not in a transaction to which section 424(a) of
the Code applies, and to make such adjustments in the terms of such awards as
it shall deem appropriate in order to maintain reasonable comparability or
equitable treatment between the assumed awards and the Awards granted under
this Plan as so adjusted.  

9  

12.                                       Withholding.   

Prior to the payment or
settlement of any Award, the Participant must pay, or make arrangements
satisfactory to the Company for the payment of, any and all tax withholding
that in the opinion of the Company is required by law.  The Company or any Affiliate shall have the
right to deduct applicable taxes from any Award payment, to withhold from the
shares of Common Stock being issued or delivered in connection with an Award an
appropriate number of shares for the payment of taxes required by law, or to
take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company or
such Affiliate to satisfy all obligations for the withholding of such taxes.  

13.                                       Transferability.   

Except as permitted in
this Section 13, no Award granted under this Plan may be assigned,
transferred (other than a transfer by will or the laws of descent and
distribution as provided in Section 7), pledged, or hypothecated (whether
by operation of law or otherwise). 
Awards granted under this Plan shall not be subject to execution,
attachment, or similar process.  The
Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit individual Participants to
transfer the ownership of all or any of their Nonqualified Options granted
under this Plan to (i) the spouse, children or grandchildren of such
Participant ( Immediate Family Members ), (ii) a trust or trusts for the
exclusive benefit of such Immediate Family Members, or (iii) a partnership
in which such Immediate Family Members are the only partners, provided that (x) there
may be no consideration for any such transfer, and (y) subsequent
transfers of transferred Nonqualified Options shall be prohibited except those
in accordance with Section 7 (by will or the laws of descent and
distribution).  The Committee may, in its
sole discretion, create further conditions and requirements for the transfer of
Nonqualified Options.  Following
transfer, any such Nonqualified Options shall continue to be subject to the
same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer.  The events causing termination of Awards in
accordance with Section 7 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect
to the original Participant, following which the Nonqualified Options shall be
exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods specified
in Section 7.  

14.                                       Validity.   

In the event any
provision of this Plan should be determined to be illegal or invalid for any
reason, it shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan which shall
remain in effect as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included
herein.  

15.                                       Governing Law.   

The provisions of this
Plan shall be governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with,
the laws of the State of Delaware.  

16.                                     Effective Date, Term, Amendment and
Termination of the Plan.   

This Plan will become
effective on the date it is approved by the requisite vote of the stockholders
of 3M Company, and shall expire (unless it is terminated before then) on the
tenth anniversary of such effective date. 
Such expiration shall not adversely affect Awards granted under this
Plan prior to such expiration date.  The
Board of Directors may at any time amend or terminate this Plan, except that no
amendment or termination shall adversely affect Awards granted under this Plan
prior to the effective date of such amendment or termination; provided,
however, that no amendment shall be made without the prior approval of the
holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock
represented and entitled to vote on such amendment which would (i) increase
the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance or
delivery under this Plan in accordance with Section 4 (except for
adjustments made in accordance with Section 11), (ii) permit the granting
of Awards with purchase prices lower than those specified in Section 5, or
(iii) be a material amendment for which stockholder approval is required
by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule.  

10  

17.                                       Change in Control.   

For purposes of this Section 17,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated below, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise:  

(a)                                       Person  shall have the meaning
associated with that term as it is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of
the Act.  

(b)                                      Affiliates and Associates  shall have
the meanings assigned to such terms in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12
of the Act.  

(c)                                       Act  means the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.  

(d)                                      Continuing Directors  shall have the
meaning assigned to such term in Article Thirteenth of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of 3M Company.  

Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan to the contrary, all outstanding Options and Stock
Appreciation Rights shall (i) become immediately exercisable in full for
the remainder of their respective terms upon the occurrence of a Change in
Control of the Company, and (ii) remain exercisable in full for a minimum
period of six months following the Change in Control; provided, however, that
in no event shall any Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond
the original expiration date. Similarly, all restrictions regarding the
Restricted Period or the satisfaction of other terms and conditions prescribed
by the Committee, if any, with respect to grants of Restricted Stock,
Restricted Stock Units or other Stock Awards, shall automatically lapse,
expire, and terminate and the Participant shall be immediately entitled to
receive a stock certificate for the number of shares of Common Stock
represented by the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Stock Awards
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control.  

Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Plan to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change in
Control of the Company each Performance Period shall end and the Company shall
immediately distribute in cash or shares of Common Stock, as appropriate, to
the respective Participants the value of all outstanding Performance Shares and
Performance Units granted under this Plan, as determined in accordance with the
following rules:  

(x)  With respect to
those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period
had not been completed prior to the Change in Control of the Company, the value
of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be equal to
the product of a fraction, where the numerator of such fraction is the number
of full calendar months completed during the respective Performance Period and
prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of such fraction is 36,
multiplied by the largest of:  

the value of such Performance Shares or Performance
Units computed as if the Company s performance during the remainder of the
Performance Period following the Change in Control equaled its performance
during those full calendar quarters completed during the respective Performance
Period and prior to the date of the Change in Control;  

the value of such Performance Shares or Performance
Units computed as if the Performance Period for such Shares or Units was the
three consecutive calendar year period ending immediately prior to the year in
which the Change in Control occurs; or  

any other amount approved, in its discretion, by the
Committee.  

11  

(y)  With respect to
those Performance Shares or Performance Units for which the Performance Period
has been completed at the time of a Change in Control of the Company, the value
of such Shares or Units for purposes of this Section 17 shall be the
actual value as adjusted to reflect the actual Company performance during the
Performance Period.  

For purposes of this Section 17,
a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred only if a  change
in the ownership  or a  change in effective control  and/or a  change in the
ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company has taken
place (as those terms are defined in Treasury Regulations  1.409A-3(i)(5) or
such other regulation or guidance issued under section 409A of the Code.  

In the event that the
provisions of this Section 17, when considered together with the other
compensation provided by the Company, result in  payments  that are finally
determined to be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code,
the Company shall pay to each Participant an additional amount sufficient to
fully satisfy such excise tax and any additional federal, state, and local
income taxes payable on the additional amount. 
Payment of this additional amount shall be made as soon as
administratively feasible, but no later than two and one-half months following
the end of the Participant s taxable year in which the amount of the excise tax
payable has been determined.  

The Company shall pay to
each Participant the amount of all reasonable legal and accounting fees and
expenses incurred by such Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce his or
her rights under this Section 17, or in connection with any income tax
audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of section
4999 of the Code to the payments made pursuant to this Section 17, unless
a lawsuit commenced by the Participant for such purposes is dismissed by the
court as being frivolous or otherwise improper under applicable court
rules.  The Company shall also pay to
each Participant the amount of all reasonable tax and financial planning fees
and expenses incurred by such Participant in connection with such Participant s
receipt of payments pursuant to this Section 17.  Payment of these legal and accounting fees
and expenses, as well as these tax and financial planning fees and expenses,
shall be made as soon as administratively feasible, but no later than two and
one-half months following the end of the Participant s taxable year in which
these fees and expenses have been incurred.  

18.                                       Miscellaneous.   

(a)                                      Nothing in this Plan or the fact that a
person has received or become eligible to receive Awards hereunder shall be
deemed to give such person any right to be retained in the employ of the Company
or any Affiliate or to interfere with the right of the Company or any Affiliate
to discipline or terminate the employment of such person at any time for any
reason whatsoever.  No person shall have
any claim or right to receive Awards under this Plan, except as provided in
accordance with the provisions of this Plan and as approved by the
Committee.  Unless otherwise specifically
determined by the Committee, neither the Awards themselves nor the payments
received with respect to such Awards granted under this Plan will be deemed a
part of any Participant s compensation for purposes of determining such
Participant s payments or benefits under any benefit plan or severance program
of the Company or any Affiliate or under the severance pay law of any country.  

(b)                                     This Plan will be unfunded.  The Company does not intend to create any
trust or separate fund in connection with the Plan.  The Company shall not have any obligation to
set aside funds or segregate assets to ensure the payment of any Award.  The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary
relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person.  To the extent any person holds any rights by
virtue of an Award under this Plan, such right (unless otherwise determined by
the Committee) shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general
creditor of the Company.  

(c)                                      Prior to the payment or settlement of any
Award, the Participant must pay or make arrangements satisfactory to the
Company and its Affiliates for the payment of any and all tax withholding that
in the opinion of the Company and its Affiliates is required by law.  The Company and its Affiliates shall have the
right to deduct from any  

12  

Award or any payment due
on account of any Award granted under this Plan the federal, state, local or
foreign income or other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to
such Award or payment, to withhold from the shares of Common Stock being issued
or delivered in connection with an Award an appropriate number of shares for
the payment of taxes required by law, and to take such other action as may be
necessary in the opinion of the Company and its Affiliates to satisfy all
obligations for the withholding and payment of such taxes.  

(d)                                     The provisions of this Plan and the
documents evidencing Awards granted under this Plan shall be construed and
interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware.  

(e)                                      In case any provision of this Plan shall
be ruled or declared invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions, and the remainder of the Plan shall
be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had never
been included herein.  

(f)                                        To the extent permitted by the Committee,
each Participant shall have the right at any time to designate any person,
persons or entity as the beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom payment of the
Participant s outstanding Awards shall be made in the event of the Participant s
death.  Any designation filed under the
Plan may be revoked or changed by written instrument so signed and filed prior
to the Participant s death.  If a
Participant designates more than one beneficiary to receive such Participant s
outstanding Awards and any beneficiary shall predecease the Participant, the
Company shall pay the deceased beneficiary s share to the surviving beneficiary
or beneficiaries proportionately, as the portion designated by the Participant
for each bears to the total portion designated for all surviving beneficiaries.  

(g)                                     This Plan is intended to comply and shall
be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code (including the Treasury Department guidance and
regulations issued thereunder), and shall be construed and interpreted in
accordance with such intent.  If the
Committee determines that an Award, Award document, payment, transaction or any
other action or arrangement contemplated by the provisions of this Plan would,
if undertaken, cause a Participant to become subject to any additional taxes or
other penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then unless the Committee
specifically provides otherwise, such Award, Award document, payment,
transaction or other action or arrangement shall not be given effect to the
extent it causes such result and the related provisions of the Plan and/or
Award documents will be deemed modified or, if necessary, suspended in order to
comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the extent
determined appropriate by the Committee, in each case without the consent of or
notice to the Participant.  

(h)                                     Although the Company and its Affiliates
may endeavor to structure an Award or payment hereunder so that it (i) qualifies
for favorable U.S. or foreign tax treatment, or (ii) avoids adverse tax
treatment, neither the Company nor any Affiliate makes any representation to
that effect and expressly disavows any commitment or obligation to maintain
favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment for any Participant.  

13  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.3>
 3
 a09-1282_1ex10d3.htm
 EX-10.3

EXHIBIT 10.3   

3M COMPANY   

   3M 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT   

   FOR U.S. EMPLOYEES   

[PARTICIPANT
NAME]  

1.   Grant of Option .     This Agreement confirms that on [GRANT DATE] (the  Grant
Date ), 3M Company (the  Company ) granted y  ou
a Nonqualified Stock Option (the  Option ) to purchase [NUMBER OF SHARES
GRANTED] shares of Common Stock of the Company at the exercise price of [GRANT
PRICE] per share (the  Exercise Price ), subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement and the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2008 Plan ).  

2.   Definitions .     Capitalized terms used and not
defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the 2008 Plan.  

3.   Vesting and Term of Option .     Your Option will vest over three years, as
long as you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate from
the Grant Date until each vesting date or if you die or Retire before any such
date.  This means that you may exercise
the first one-third of the shares subject to this Option on or after the first
anniversary of the Grant Date, the second one-third of these shares on or after
the second anniversary of the Grant Date, and the remaining one-third of these
shares on or after the third anniversary of the Grant Date, assuming continued
employment.  However, you will be
required to accept this Option as well as this Agreement before being permitted
to exercise the Option.  This Option will
expire on and may not be exercised after the earlier of February 8, 2019
or the 90  th   day following the end of your 3M
employment, except in cases of Retirement, death, disability, Disqualifying
Termination or a termination in connection with which you execute a written
release of employment-related claims in favor of the Company that provides
(with the approval of the Company) for the nonforfeiture of stock options (but
only to the extent this Option has vested prior to the date of the termination
of your employment).  

4.   Nature of Grant .    
In accepting the grant of this Option, you acknowledge that:  

(a)           the 2008 Plan is established
voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be
modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless
otherwise provided in the 2008 Plan;  

(b)           the grant of the Option is voluntary
and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive
future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options, even if options have
been granted repeatedly in the past;  

(c)           all decisions with respect to future
option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Compensation
Committee of the 3M Board of Directors;  

(d)           your participation in the 2008 Plan
shall not create a right to further employment with your employer and shall not
interfere with the ability of your employer to terminate your employment
relationship at any time with or without cause;  

(e)           the Option is not part of your
regular or expected compensation for any purpose, including, but not limited
to, calculating any severance payments, bonuses, life insurance, disability,
pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;  

(f)              the Company is not providing
any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the  

1  

Company making any
recommendations regarding your participation in the 2008 Plan, or your
acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock; and  

(g)           you are hereby advised to consult with your own personal
tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the 2008 Plan
before taking any action related to the 2008 Plan.  

5.   Transferability .    
This Option is not transferable except in the event of your death, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 13 of the 2008 Plan.  

6.   Governing Law .    
This Option and the provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and
subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, as provided in the 2008 Plan.  

For purposes of
litigating any dispute that arises concerning the grant of this Option or this
Agreement, you and the Company agree and consent to the jurisdiction of the State
of Minnesota, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts
of Ramsey County, Minnesota, or the federal courts for the United States for
the District of Minnesota, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.  

7.       Entire
Agreement     .     The 2008
Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and
supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject
matter contained herein.  

By
accepting the grant of this Option, you agree to all of the terms and
conditions described above and in the 2008 Plan.   

2  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 4
 a09-1282_1ex10d4.htm
 EX-10.4

EXHIBIT
10.4   

3M COMPANY   

   3M 2008 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN   

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT   

   FOR U.S. EMPLOYEES   

[PARTICIPANT
NAME]  

1.   Grant of Restricted Stock Units .     This Agreement confirms that on [GRANT DATE] (the  Grant
Date ), 3M Company (the  Company ) granted y  ou
Restricted Stock Units (the  Restricted Stock Units ) with respect to [NUMBER
OF SHARES GRANTED] shares of Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement and the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2008
Plan ).  

2.   Definitions .     Capitalized terms used and not
defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the 2008 Plan.  

[ 3.   Vesting
of Restricted Stock Units .   Your Restricted Stock Units will
vest on February 9, 2012, as long as you remain employed by the Company or
an Affiliate from the Grant Date until the vesting date or if you Retire before
such vesting date; provided that such Restricted Stock Units will vest
immediately in the event of your death or  disability   within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of
the Code (upon your demonstration to the satisfaction of the Committee that you
are so  disabled ) before such date.  In
the event that you Retire on or before October 1, 2009, a portion of these
Restricted Stock Units (75% of such Units if your last day in active status is
during the first quarter of 2009, 50% if your last day in active status is
during the second quarter of 2009, and 25% if your last day in active status is
in the third quarter of 2009) will be forfeited on the effective date of your
Retirement and the remainder of these Restricted Stock Units will still vest on
the vesting date.  Once the Restricted
Stock Units have vested, the Company will issue in your name and promptly
deliver to you the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of your
vested Restricted Stock Units (less any amounts required to be withheld for tax
purposes).  Until your Restricted Stock
Units have vested and resulted in the issuance to you of actual shares of 3M
Common Stock, they may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise
encumbered or disposed of.]  

[ 3.   Vesting
of Restricted Stock Units .  
Your Restricted Stock Units will vest on February 9, 2012, as long
as you remain employed by the Company or an Affiliate from the Grant Date until
the vesting date or if you Retire before such vesting date; provided that such
Restricted Stock Units will vest immediately in the event of your death or  disability 
within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code (upon your
demonstration to the satisfaction of the Committee that you are so  disabled )
before such date.  In the event that you
Retire before the vesting date, a portion of these Restricted Stock Units
(determined by multiplying the entire number of such Restricted Stock Units by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months between your
Retirement date and the vesting date and the denominator of which is the number
of months between the Grant Date and the vesting date) will be forfeited on the
effective date of your Retirement and the remainder of these Restricted Stock
Units will still vest on the vesting date. 
Once the Restricted Stock Units have vested, the Company will issue in
your name and promptly deliver to you the number of shares of Common Stock
equal to the number of your vested Restricted Stock Units (less any amounts
required to be withheld for tax purposes). 
Until your Restricted Stock Units have vested and resulted in the
issuance to you of actual shares of 3M Common Stock, they may not be sold, transferred,
assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of.]  

4.   Dividend Equivalents .     During the Restricted Period of these
Restricted Stock Units, the Company will credit to an account on your behalf
Dividend Equivalents equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid
on these Restricted Stock Units had you actually owned the same number of
shares of Common Stock of the Company. 
On the vesting date of these Restricted Stock Units, the Company will
pay you in cash the amount of these accumulated Dividend Equivalents; provided,
however, that in the event any or all of these Restricted Stock  

1  

Units
are forfeited prior to such date then the accumulated Dividend Equivalents
attributable to such forfeited Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited as
well.  

5.   Responsibility for Taxes .    
As a condition of the vesting of these Restricted Stock Units (as well
as the Dividend Equivalents attributable to such Restricted Stock Units), you
agree to assist the Company and/or your employer in satisfying all withholding
and payment on account obligations resulting from such vesting.  In this regard, you authorize the Company
and/or your employer to withhold all applicable income, payroll or other taxes
legally payable by you from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you
by the Company and/or your employer or from proceeds of the sale of shares of
Common Stock.  Alternatively, the Company
may (1) sell or arrange for the sale of shares of Common Stock that you
acquire to meet the withholding obligation for these taxes, and/or (2) withhold
in shares of Common Stock, provided that the Company only withholds the amount
of shares of Common Stock necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding
amount.  If the Company or your employer
satisfies the obligation for these taxes due in connection with Restricted
Stock Units by withholding a number of shares of Common Stock as described
herein, you will be deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of
Common Stock subject to these Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a
number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of
paying the taxes due as a result of the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units.  

6.   Nature of Grant .     In accepting the grant of these Restricted
Stock Units, you acknowledge that:  

(a)           the
2008 Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in
nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company
at any time, unless otherwise provided in the 2008 Plan;  

(b)           the
grant of the Restricted Stock Units is voluntary and occasional and does not
create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of restricted
stock units, or benefits in lieu of restricted stock units, even if restricted
stock units have been granted repeatedly in the past;  

(c)           all
decisions with respect to future restricted stock unit grants, if any, will be
at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee of the 3M Board of
Directors;  

(d)           your
participation in the 2008 Plan shall not create a right to further employment
with your employer and shall not interfere with the ability of your employer to
terminate your employment relationship at any time with or without cause;  

(e)           the
Restricted Stock Units are not part of your regular or expected compensation
for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance
payments, bonuses, life insurance, disability, pension or retirement benefits
or similar payments;  

(f)              the Company is
not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any
recommendations regarding your participation in the 2008 Plan, or your
acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock; and  

(g)           you are hereby advised to consult with your own personal
tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the 2008 Plan
before taking any action related to the 2008 Plan.  

7 .   Governing Law .   These Restricted Stock Units and the
provisions of this Agreement are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the
State of Delaware, as provided in the 2008 Plan.  

For
purposes of litigating any dispute that arises concerning the grant of these
Restricted Stock Units or this Agreement, you and the Company agree and consent
to the jurisdiction of the State of Minnesota, and agree that such litigation
shall be conducted in the courts of Ramsey County, Minnesota, or the federal
courts for the United States for the District of Minnesota, where this grant is
made and/or to be performed.  

2  

8    .       Entire
Agreement     .     The 2008
Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and
supersede all prior undertakings and agreements with respect to the subject
matter contained herein.  

By
accepting the grant of these Restricted Stock Units, you agree to all of the
terms and conditions described above and in the 2008 Plan.   

3  

</EX-10.4>

<EX-12>
 5
 a09-1282_1ex12.htm
 EX-12

EXHIBIT
12   

3M
COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   CALCULATION
OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

   (Millions)   

* 2008 results included
net pre-tax charges of $269 million, with charges related to restructuring
actions, exit activities and a loss on sale of businesses partially offset by a
gain on sale of real estate. 2007 results included pre-tax gains of $681
million, with net benefits from gains related to the sale of businesses and a
gain on sale of real estate, which were partially offset by increases in
environmental liabilities, restructuring actions, and other exit activities.
2006 results included pre-tax gains of $523 million, with net benefits from
gains related to the sale of certain portions of 3M s branded pharmaceuticals
business partially offset by restructuring actions, acquired in-process
research and development expenses, settlement costs of a previously disclosed
antitrust class action, and environmental obligations related to the
pharmaceuticals business.  

1  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 a09-1282_1ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT
21   

3M
COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES (PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES)   

   AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2008   

1  

EXHIBIT 21 (continued)   

NOTE: Subsidiary
companies excluded from the above listing, if considered in the aggregate,
would not constitute a significant subsidiary.  

2  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 a09-1282_1ex23.htm
 EX-23

EXHIBIT
23   

CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(Registration Nos. 33-14791, 33-49842, 33-58763, 33-58767, 333-26957,
333-30689, 333-30691, 333-44760, 333-44692, 333-73192, 333-101727, 333-101751,
333-109282, 333-128251, 333-130150, 333-151039, 333-156626 and 333-156627) and Form S-3
(Registration Nos. 33-48089, 333-42660, 333-98163, 333-112563 and
333-132041) of 3M Company of our report dated February 10, 2009, relating
to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
February 13, 2009  

1  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 a09-1282_1ex24.htm
 EX-24

EXHIBIT
24   

POWER OF
ATTORNEY   

Each
of the undersigned Directors and the Principal Executive and Principal
Financial and Accounting Officers of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ),
hereby constitutes and appoints George W. Buckley, Patrick D. Campbell, Gregg
M. Larson, David W. Meline, Marschall I. Smith, and Janet L. Yeomans, and each
of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place
and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the
Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, on Form 10-K under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, any amendments thereto, and all
additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may
approve, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in
connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority
to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be
done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or
issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or
resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

The undersigned have signed this
Power of Attorney this 10th day of February 2009.  

/s/ George W. Buckley  

/s/ Patrick D. Campbell  

George W. Buckley,
  Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal
  Executive Officer and Director)  

Patrick D. Campbell,
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
  Officer)  

/s/ Linda G. Alvarado  

/s/ David W. Meline  

Linda G. Alvarado, Director  

David W. Meline, Vice
  President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting
  Officer)  

/s/ Vance D. Coffman  

/s/ Edward M. Liddy  

Vance D. Coffman,
  Director  

Edward M. Liddy,
  Director  

/s/ Michael L. Eskew  

/s/ Robert S. Morrison  

Michael L. Eskew,
  Director  

Robert S. Morrison,
  Director  

/s/ W. James Farrell  

/s/ Aulana L. Peters  

W. James Farrell,
  Director  

Aulana L. Peters,
  Director  

/s/ Herbert L. Henkel  

/s/ Robert J. Ulrich  

Herbert L. Henkel,
  Director  

Robert J. Ulrich,
  Director  

1  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a09-1282_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

EXHIBIT
31.1   

SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION   

I, George W. Buckley,
certify that:  

1.                   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of 3M Company;  

2.                   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3.                   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.                   The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:  

(a)              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

(b)             Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

(c)              Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)             Disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

5.                   The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

(a)              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)             Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s
internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/ George W. Buckley  

George W. Buckley  

Chief Executive Officer  

February 13, 2009  

1  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a09-1282_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2   

SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION   

I, Patrick D. Campbell,
certify that:  

1.                   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of 3M Company;  

2.                   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3.                   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.                   The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:  

(a)              Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

(b)             Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

(c)              Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)             Disclosed in this report any change in the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

5.                   The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

(a)              All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)             Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s
internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/ Patrick D. Campbell  

Patrick D. Campbell  

Chief Financial Officer  

February 13, 2009  

1  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 a09-1282_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1   

SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION   

In connection with the
Annual Report of 3M Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period
ended December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, George W. Buckley, Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that, to my knowledge:  

1.                   The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2.                   The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

/s/ George W. Buckley  

George W. Buckley  

Chief Executive Officer  

February 13, 2009  

1  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 a09-1282_1ex32d2.htm
 EX-32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2   

SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION   

In connection with the
Annual Report of 3M Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period
ended December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Patrick D. Campbell, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that, to my knowledge:  

1.                   The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2.                   The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

/s/ Patrick D. Campbell  

Patrick D. Campbell  

Chief Financial Officer  

February 13, 2009  

1  

</EX-32.2>

